AA008_Newcamp_Finterviewee

I: You live here, work here year round?

R: Yeah. And in the winter, I'm off doing other things so

I: Alright our first question is going to be: what do you like about Meadville, the city of Meadville? Another way to ask is can you tell me something about the city of Meadville, something that happens to you or something that happens here regularly that reflects what is great or what you like about the community? Something that happens here regularly that reflects what you like about it here.

R: That is a broad question. Obviously I do like the sense of community I get when I go down to some of the community events, especially ones at the market house. I love going down to the †farmers' market. I love really being able to interact with the farmers and i love going down and just being able to see everyone there. It is a little bit of a social scene. Also, I do like that it's small and if I do go into any of the coffee shops, I will run onto someone I know. I would say that if there's an event, it's nice that it's a small enough community that you can read about it in the paper and you can usually go to it and see people there. So I guess i would say that I like that there are things to do but when you do them you're always running into people you know. I like the small community feel, I like that there's still a lot of really great events you can go to. Especially things like the plays at Allegheny. I love what the college brings into the †town. I love the culture that gets brought in with that. And I'm really excited to see some of the stuff at the Academy Theater. I haven't really been there so thats a place I need to get to. For a small town, Ive lived here for almost five years now, theres still a lot of places i haven't been. I do like that all of those options are there. And with the MCA, I like when they offer shows and stuff there. And i think the market house is a real asset to this community. The market house has a gathering space both for the farmers market, the second saturdays, but also the cooking classes. Oh man, that reminds me I was gonna go to a cooking class yesterday and I totally forgot.†

I: What were they doing?

R: It was Uma's. Uma was doing an Indian cooking class. But it's just, it wasn't really advertised well. And I ran into her at light up night and then I totally forgot.

I: Oh what a shame, i would've liked to have done that.

R: Me too. But hopefully I can talk to her and say, 'i can't believe it, i forgot, i need to sign up for the next one'. But I love what the market house has to offer, cooking classes, second saturdays, and the MCA.

I: Why do you stay or what brought you to Meadville?

R: Well I think the answer to that one, I came to Meadville, I really like the small community, and my boyfriend is here. That was a big reason for it. And I've been able to stay because I've had a lot of interesting opportunities come my way. There's definitely ways to get involved. That also does touch upon some of the tricker things of being, and trying to be, in the community too. Family is really the reason for that.

I: What things capture the spirit of our town? Spirit. That was a hard one for me.

R: I guess as a little bit of an outsider's perspective, I think a lot of the industrial spaces that are not used, it sounds weird that those industrial spaces that aren't used capture a lot of this town. But I love the repurposing of those spaces. I love how Voodoo has actually bought one, and is potentially going to open it up so we can see that brewing process. I love that those spaces are still there. I love how affected the community was by the dismantling of the Talon factory. So I think those factories and those industrial spaces are part of the heritage of this community and being able to use them in a thoughtful and repurposed way would be really important to the character and the spirit of this town. I mean it's a very tool and die industry, I mean it's a very manufacturing area, and I would hate see all of those places just crumble and continue to crumble without any use because I think that they really †are the roots of this town.

I: If something wasn't here, what would you miss? I mean if something in Meadville wasn't here, it was gone, what would make it seem like it's not Meadville anymore?

R: Oh my gosh, the Market House. That would be, I don't even know what i would do without the Market House. I mean I †could tell you a couple things I could go without, but the Market House is essential. It makes me sad that there's not more money put into it. I know we're not a rich community, it's hard for us to do all the upkeep of everything.. But that building, and the electricity in that building, we need to figure out a way to save it.

I: And hopefully with the help.

R: I'm sure a lot of people say that. It's like one of the key things.

I: I said that when I did my interview. What about Meadville is important to continue into the future?†

R: Well I think that one of the things is we really need to invest in our small businesses. I think that people really need to step away from the Walmarts and step away from the Home Depots and go back to Ace Hardware, go back to Sherwin Williams and go back to all of the shops that are opening up on Chestnut St. I think in order to really be an economically viable community we really need to support each other and not the box stores. There's tons of research that shows that buying from a local business, even if it's a smaller store, your dollars really go a lot farther in the community that way. I think that's incredibly important. I also see a lot of farmers that are not farming as much anymore, a lot of our farming generation has gotten older. And id like to see, i would like to see younger farmers in here too. I would like to be one of them. I think that that's another really important thing. We have such a rich agricultural heritage as well.