KL010

Nate Lee

Lois Lee (grandma)_Female_White_75

 

Can you tell me something that happens to you here regularly that reflects what is great or what you love about the City of Meadville?

R: Well, when I’m in town and around…I love going around the diamond – there is so much there, there’s the Courthouse, and they are the county seat.  There is an antique building, there is a building now that they are trying to save from being destroyed – the Tar Mansion – uh, there’s also a building there that used to be the High school that is now apartments and businesses – so we’ve progressed some there and we have a much newer school on the edge of town. Then there’s the Library and 3 churches there, so It’s really interesting to just go around the diamond and experience that.  I don’t know Why its called a Diamond because its an odd just oval shape, but I guess diamond works.

What matters to you most about living here?

R: Well, it matters that it’s a growing community, it’s a caring community, it has room for many-um-interesting things to do – and I especially like what Allegheny has done with all the things they have made out of discarded road signs that they have made into interesting art.  Well, that’s not really a matter, it’s just

For you it is…

Well, I guess it matters that people are trying to improve the community – that would be one of the artsy ways they do so that I appreciate.

What is your favorite memory of living in Meadville?

R: Well, there used to be 3 theaters downtown so there was always one to go to, there was a department store on the corner, there was always some place to go for entertainment, and there were parks around town- not so much now.

Why do you stay or what brought you?

R: My family was settled in here, so there…I just stayed – there was nothing that took me out of town.

What would make staying here easier?

R: Uh, family close by. Church.

And what are the things in Meadville that really capture the spirit of our town?

R: Well, I guess it matters that its an easy place to get around – the town is small, um – it’s a very friendly town – people speak to you as you pass or in the stores

Why do you like that?

R: Well, I’m a hello person myself – so I like exchanging greetings…

What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn’t here anymore?

R: Well, I imagine the courthouse because it’s a big – and Allegheny College, it’s a big part of town – and of course the hospital, its important to have the hospital here.

What about Meadville is important to continue into the future?

R: Well, I think that the growth of Meadville is being well taken care of by people who have visions of Meadville for the future, and Meadville is in a continuing growing stage, which is a good thing.  I don’t want it to expand beyond a small town, I like the small town atmosphere, but growth is necessary.

What do you want the young people in this community to experience when they grow up?

R: Well, getting a good education, um, enjoying all the recreation and other fun things that are available in town and close to town, there are nice camping grounds and hiking trails in and close to town and nice places to walk.

What would you change to make Meadville even better – or if you could have one wish, what would it be?

R: I don’t think I would change anything – I would just like for it to remain a small, easy to get around town

Why is the small town atmosphere important to you?

R: I suppose just because I’m not a big town person, having grown up in a small town, it’s my ideal place to live.

Well, thank you.

 