Connection Number 001

Interviewer: Pat

Interviewee: R 

Pat: Uh, um I'm Pat and I'm interviewing R here um, I'm working for My Meadville which is trying to determine what the community wants and what can make it better, for this interview I'll be  recording is that okay with you?

R: Yes.

Pat: Okay let's get started. What do you love about the city of Meadville?

R: I really love the potential that Meadville has, um, I live out in West Mead and I really love the suburban rural uh, way of life and how um, the community there um, I can see how it can really come together. Uh... I really love how my... family has uh, come together, uh and we've been united a lot uh, in Meadville um... In this area and how my neighbors and us you know, we're really there for each other um... I also, you know I, I love how it's, it's it's down to Earth um, it's not... it's not like a big city like Erie where you don't know everybody, it's, um very avail available to a lot of people. Um I've always grown up I've grown up here for my whole life and really love that lifestyle.

Pat: So then I'll ask you what matters most to you about living here as you said about like the community aspects, aspect and everything like that so what, what would you say like, was really important about Meadville?

R: I say, very important about Meadville is keeping that... that uh, suburban city life kind of where you can know a lot of people but yet not feel uh, pulled away from each other as in like a rural place where you're far from each other but at the same time not to, close together like in Erie or Pittsburgh... I, I mean, how the big city as in Erie or Pittsburgh in, in what matter to me most here is my family and also that, again that lifestyle. 

Pat: Um so it might be hard but do you have any memories or what's your favorite memory of living here or, a couple or a what do you do, do you have any traditions or anything, involving Meadville?

R: Um... I probably one of my most favorite memories is uh, get getting my first communion um... at it was at saint mary's here in Meadville it was a very, very fun time. 

Pat: Okay so... why do you stay here and, obviously you were born here and your family is here, but why would you stay here in the future?

R: Why would I stay here, um... again I love the lifestyle, the suburban slash rural, um, uh, lifestyle where you can, you can really get to know your neighbors and I think that's very important because getting to know your neighbors and developing a lot of relationsh, relationships it's easier to um... build a better community and uh, develop as a... as a whole community. Um, and also it's easier to find clubs to join and other things to provide service to others.

Pat: So going off of that what would, is there anything you can think of that would make living here easier?

R: um... I think... what would make things here a li... living here easier would be... uh... if it was just easier maybe to get out, and to do more community service so hat the community can grow as a whole. 

Pat: So what things do you think capture the spirit of Meadville and like our surrounding areas?

R: I would say uh Baldwin Reynolds house is definitely a great place of history. I remember going there in third grade for a field trip and seeing uh the great architecture and history um, you know I think, that just capture how, history has such an influence on our town and how it still is affecting it today, um, how people are coming together, again, to build a better community um, to see... uh, th the history and the... great things that Meadville has to offer. 

Pat: So say you ever moved out of Meadville what would you miss that was in Meadville, that's in Meadville now, and uh, what if it were gone and you still lived here, like what would uh, what would you  see the change in and what would you miss about Meadville?

R: I would miss... a lot of, if it were gone a lot of the historical sites again like Baldwin Reynolds house and um, all the tall churches and all the great architecture and stuff um, cause if it were gone, you know, it's kinda like how we have those tall things kinda define kind of... give those first impressions to people so if you, if those things are kind gone than it just seems too... make Meadville seem... blah.

Pat: So you like you like to keep it traditional and kind of, you like the history, don't you don't want to get rid of the history or anything like that, you wanna keep it. 

R: during Pat's sentence Yeah...yeah

Pat: Alright. So what about Meadville is important to continue in the future other than that history and tradition we have?

R: Um, I say community service is a great thing. I know if the Alle uh, Gaby Bradshaw with Allegheny she was reaching out to high school students you know that really help to develop us and Allegheny and the community as a whole you know I think it's great to introduce more community service opportunities into Meadville. And to continue to grow through that.

Pat: So, if your grandchildren or children lived up, mov, lived in Meadville and grew up here what would you want them to experience that maybe you did or maybe you didn't experience?

R: Um, I would really like them to experience... probably, I'm just gonna go simple here, joy um... ee... uh, I experienced a lot of joy growing up in Meadville and I've noticed how um, um, uh, while I was growing up um... how... you know I always had that joy and, I didn't have to worry about, uh crime or not being safe and want them to enjoy that too, you know like you look to Erie or Pittsburgh or the other bi, big cities and people have to continually worry about their safety but here you don't have to. 

Pat: So, do you think of anything you could change or anybody could change that would make Meadville even better, or if you could have one wish what would it be for Meadville, or the people of Meadville?

R: one wish, um, i would say, I would like... Meadville for a lot of people to be more open um, I notice you know throughout the past century if you look into history people seems to kind of, be closing themselves off from each other and I really think it's better if we an like open up to each other and uh, grow connections and uh, grow a better community. So if we could be almost uh, uh, if we could let each other change ourselves I think, that's what that's what I wish.

Pat: okay, thank you for time, and just to finish off your interview i just want you to fill out this demographic sheet and you'll be ready to go.

R: Mm, hm.

Pat: Thanks R.