R: you know, i used to be, I was a shy child, but then I became a teacher and you have to be assertive, so.... now I'm crazy

Katie: Awesome, where'd you teach? Everywhere? 

R:  I taught in southwestern, pa and then when we moved here I taught in....

Katie: Southwestern, PA

R: 40 miles north of pittsburgh

Katie: Nice. I used to live near Pittsburgh. 

R: Where?

Katie: Uhhh... Pittsburgh.

R: You don't know what part? 

Katie: Umm over towards Dormont. 

R: Oh! You're kidding. My parents best friends lived in Dormont. 

K: Awesome. WHo's that?

 

R: Well she just died. 

K: Sorry (laughter)

R: She's been dead for a while. 

K: I guess there's no chance of us ever meeting. 

R: No. Well there is  but not in this life. 

K: True. Ok. So what do you love about the city of Meadville?

R: Hmmm. Well This is gonna sound really stupid, but thats okay. I grew up in a little town of 1500 peple, and it is okay these words are hard for me to remember even at my old age... density means lots of people, right? 

 Glenn: In a small area

R: Yes, well that's the kind of place i grew up in. So evertyhings within a half an hour or ten minutes. So what I liked about Meadville is what I was afraid of... like... nothing against Saegertown 'cause I also went through there... but I htought this is just like my little town and I'd have to drive a long ways for... I mean, H&H is there, but...`

Glenn: There's not really much else.

R: The Saegertown Hardware's great. So. That is... but hten, umm... things that somebody is involved with... and I can't remember... 'cause like Lee and a bunch of the... and yourself.... everybody seems to kinda be....

K: Everybody's involved in everything.

R: ...together. yeah. And we have a block party at our center tomorrow that all these different configurations 

K: What's your center?

R: Fairview Fairmont? up on the hill....

K: Yeah. 

R: Anyway, um, so they're trying to revive the City parks programs that used to be in all the parks and that was something I liked when my children... I have a 24 and a 20 year old. 

K: Nice. 

R. Uhhh the programs that they have in the Diamond used to have a youth fair where you could go down into the Downtown Mall  and find out all the summer programs that used to be for youth. So there's a lot of opportunities. What i don't like is to get anything continuously cultural nature although that's improving too, slowly. You have to go an hour or 45 minutes away. And that's not what i grew up with. Everything was very close by. So that

K: So you're enjoying... you're enjoying having to go or you're not enjoying.... 

R: Not having to go. But I like that there are a lot of different... well at least it's develioped into a lot of different shops... and I want to ... I don't know if you tried the Woolen Mill thging. I haven't gone there yet, but boy, it looks it looks uh like top class? high class? Not not unaffordable stuff but, you know, something that hasn't been in town since a long time. More than 25 years ago. So there are some good things about. I think a lot of good things are happenign now that haven't been going on. 

K: Awesome. So what do you think matters the most in Meadville to you?

R: To me? Opportunities for people that are younger than me. 

K: And what kind of opportunities? 

R: Umm like the community gardens and programs like all the things that are happening new now. The Thankful Thursdays and all the stuff that I keep reading about. Because Meadville is gonna continue to be drained of young people if young people don't continue to be part of it. My children will never be back here. 

K: Yeah. 

Because theeres nothing for them... there's nothing for them as far as their careers go. Umm... that would pay enough. 

Yeah. 

R: So unless we keep adding things that are gonna attract people, then um, things aren't gonna get any better. 

K: Yeah

R: and when all the tool and dies closed, it was kinda like it's helpfess because you know... it takes a while. It takes about 20 years. (wind) 

Wow. 

K: So what do you think you're favorite memory of living in Meadville is? 

R: Aahhoohh they did well up at Allegheny they had an ice rink in Shafer auditorium many years ago for Beauty and the Beast and people who have lived here who have retired from the hostpital said they never have anything cultural like that in Meadville ever in all their years. So that was a favorite memory of mine because I took my children to it. 

K: Sounds awesome

R: And that was the kind of thing I grew up doing. My Parents would take me to pittsburgh for different things. So. um. 

Katie: Do you still do anything like that now? 

R: NO. Because I'm really busy. I work every day of the week. 

K: I see. Where do you work, again? 

R: I work at Fairview Fairmont Outreach Center. I'm the assistant director there but I also work as a private contractor....

K: So wait. What do you guys do there? 

R: Oh well we have programming for any resident that lives there from birth through time they go.... this is recorded so I can't say that too loud... social services pretty much. 

K: Awesome

R: Lunch, we're doing for the lunch program right now. DUring the school year, we have uhhh homework help and tutor time for schoolage children. We have community thanksgiving dinner. We're having the block party tomorrow. We had a carnival celebrating the end of the school year just recently and.... 

K: Sounds awesome. 

R: Yeah. 

K: Sounds great, yeah. Okay, so um, why do you stay here in Meadville and what brought you into Meadville? 

R: Job initiatlly brought us to this area. I got offered a teaching position in Wesleyville (?) and this was midway point because my husband at the time was working at a job in Bradford worked there one day. Had also been offered a second job in Mercer, so he was going 12 months a year and I was only going 9 so, we moved here so that he'd have the shorter communte. 

K: So why do you stay here? Is it still the job?

R: Well not actually he and I have changed jobs. He's still in the same system,  but I"m not doing what I was been. But yeah, once you buy a house and all that kind of stuff you get established. 

K: So, if you didn't have your job here would you still stay in Meadville? 

R: I have thought over the years of leaving. 

K: Why's that? 

R; Our families are in southwestern PA. We don't have anybody up here. at all. 

K: Yeah, I get that. 

R: Not a single person. And it's a hundred miles to go see anybody in our family or you know 45 minutes if we go see my brother. He's in Ohio and....

G: So you can really only see them on holidays and stuff? 07:56 

R: Well, yeah, with working you kinda can't uhmmm and frankly I'm getting old and I can't make that 2 hours down and 2 hours back and I can't make it any more haha.

 

K: Yeah so what, so what would make staying here easier, if they were closer?

R: Well, I don't want them to give up their lives, quite frankly, I have another career exploration I have to fill before I croak.

K: And what would that be?

R: Uhmm. I've always wanted to be, I have a degree in music education and a masters beyond that but uhmm when I start teaching in this area, I had enough special needs students that I wanted to do music therapy and I was...checked out all sorts of programs since 1989 but at that time, it was too far to go. But my parents where they lived, there's a school, that I did go to it so if I ever have to go and take care of my parents, I would just leave here and go to some place where there is one. So it might, who knows, we'll just have to see what happens. My husband will stay here and we'll meet again on weekends. I mean, when his mother had knee surgery, he went down and stayed with her for a week cause she was all by herself.

K: So.. what kinds of things capture the spirit of our town. 

R: Events and people volunteering for them and their interest level

K: So like what kind of events?

R: Oh just like the Thurston Classic which just happen recently.

K: Yeah 

R: Uhmmm...Almost anything like that the Concerts in the Park and uhmmm....I participated recently in the first time it's that First Friday event where they had Josh somebody or other I can't think of his last name but he familiar to and I don't know where I know him but my daughter and I had just gotten our haircut and we went around and looked at his photos and tried to identify what he does photography at 4 AM I don't know if you read about it different sites. So that's the things I find very interesting.

K: Awesome.What about Meadville is important to you to continue in the future?

R: We need to continue to provide for the less fortunate. 

K: Awesome.

R: We need to not give, not do handouts but uhmmm and they've got to be interested to. We've ran into that issue uhmm help them find the services they need so that they also are successful. 

K: Do you know of any programs that do that right now?

R: Oh yea, women's services there's a lot of them.

K: Yeah? Awesome. What do you want your grandchildren or children to experience growing up here? 

R: Well my two are already grown so they had a good school system uhmmm they got to participate in sports in this area they also got to participate in music uhhhh cultural events. It's a good place. It really is. But I don't know why, my children both wanted to go, when they graduated from high school, both wanted to go a place of secondary ed that was much bigger than Meadville 

K: Yeah

R: High school. They thought everybody knew your business here. Now I went to a high school that is similar in size 200 people in my graduating class. We knew everybody and that didn't bother us a bit. But, my children wanted to elsewhere like kent State, Ohio State that they could feel a little more anonymous. 12:09

K: So do you think you would rather them experience having uhhh a place where everybody knows each other to kind of have that experience or would you...?

R: I think that I've done my job and they need to decide on their own.

K: Awesome

R: I exposed them to all different things so it's hard to tell. 

K: What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't there anymore?

R: Well I tell you what I'm already thinking. Everybody says there used to be a whole lot more stores that you could choose from. Uhmm. I came there was the whole mall complex where Vernon Place is now and...but of course I'm at the point in my life where, I guess, sometimes you have time to go. But I don't, I really think that's lacking. The people here who don't have transportation, which is a lot of the people I work with right now. Uhm they don't have transportation and the buses take off before they're sitting down and older people fall and you know and I think that's one of the problems. We don't have totally accessible for people who don't have transportation and other things.

K: Yeah. So uhmm.

R: Enough they can afford. 

K: Yeah so if we didn't have transportation in general...

R: If we didn't have the CATA bus at all? Sad. Seriously because some of these people can't walk or they the good thing about Meadville is it's big but yet that's a bad thing cause I grew up in a town like Saegertown where you could walk downtown to everything.

K: Yeah take 5 minutes to everywhere you want.

R: Yeah yeah go your mother sends you down for a loaf of bread or...

K: Gallon of milk or something

R: Yeah and you can't do that here. It takes too long. Now I did when I first moved here. I do, I was living on Walnut and I would walk all the way to Valesky's and back but that was me in fitness...don't look at me now haha. That's just...

K: Yeah so what would you change to make Meadville better or if you could have one wish for Meadville, what would it be?

R: For everybody to have the opportunities. Everybody has equal opportunities. Access to whatever they need to live a acceptable. 

K: So, uh, what do you think an acceptable life is?

R: Food, clothing, decent housing. 

K: Do you think we have programs right now that help people?

R: I think we do we have a homeless shelter for men, we have women's services 

K: Yeah

R: you know for women and children uhm we have section 8 housing and low income housing but I think we have waiting lists too for those things.

K: We definitely do becuase at school women's services people came in and talked to us and they said "we have a huge waiting list" 

R: Yeah so either I don't know if we need more funding to provide more housing cause I know St. James just moved in to a big facility or if it's or if it's we need people to work at these services or if they need more funding in  order to be able to employ you know I haven't researched that but of course I my understanding is that now I'm not making a lot of money at this job I'm doing but I think that is a problem too. Uhmm you know there's a talk about minimum wage and people making $15 an hour and how that would affect businesses. Uhm I know my father's self employed and it would be a hardship for him, even though he's a professional, to pay his only one employee that per hour huhm cause it's a small town and so you but you the thing of it is ... if somebody is trying to raise a family on like $9.50 and hour and most jobs are part time now so they don't have to pay benefits.

K: So do you want programs like this to just continue and get better?

R: I think they have to but I think too but you can't do a hand out I know there's that saying "a handout's not a hand out but a hand up" but you know I think people have to take a stake in what they're given like this you know because if not then they don't really change and they don't have to change sometimes but I think you know there's no learning going on anymore in terms of how to change in life. And it's a matter of choices too. We tell the kids all that all the time and I've said to my colleague yesterday you know "we need to say something like this to the adults too" they need to make good choices.

K: What do you think is an example of a bad choice?

R: Getting married to your you know or not getting married and having three sets of kids to three different you know and then you wonder why you can't afford anything why you're you know I'm not being critical but they had the choice. Why would you do it a second or third time? 

K: So uhmm maybe wishing people were more responsible?

R: Yes of course.

K: Is there anything else?

R: Nope.

K: I think we're all done.