Interviewer: IR

Interviewee: IE

13A

IR: I'm going to ask you one more question. I guess so the only other question I have is what you would change, to make Meadville even better? 

R: *muffled speech* I can't change anyone's perspective. But like when you improve a town it motivates people to want to be more involved. Those improvements that they've made to the infrastructure in town the Main street, the bridge, and those things it has this huge effect on people that like you'll drive by it and people will instinctively be like "this is really nice" these like raised little walkways little brick walkways.

R: The first thing you said about that bridge when I saw it was that was the exact type of attachment that Meadville has. Because it's a bridge but it it's beautiful and it shows your exactly what this place has to offer. 

R: Every time we improve something it has a massive lasting effect on people. 

IR: So what are some things you think still need to be improved on?

R: *muffled* I mean they're doing some repairs right now *overlapping muffled speech* It's slowly  becoming something like Voodoo and like this and like everything. I think that's something that I would love to see keep you know and I would love to see more people want to do things like you're doing. You know who want to talk to people want to make the community a better place based on that. And like I said, the picnic thing thought that would be something that people really want.

R: You just can't stop. You can't pause you have to keep going. Because the second you stop, people's passions they just dim and they don't even like not like fast paced way but like you have to keep pushing, all the time. And  I hope that this direction that the town seems to be going, I guess that'd be my one thing, I want it to keep going the same way it's going, I don't want it to slow down. I want it to just be pushing. 

IR: So you wanna sustain that growth. You wanna make sure that's sustainable. Yeah, for sure.

R: Whether by making sure our kids are informed and intelligible about those passions and stuff or it just by having events that people continue to be involved and whatever you know. As long as we keep on going, we keep it up, and we keep it strong, there's nothing we can't do. Aside from like a mass shooting or some terrible natural disaster that'll stop it.

IR: Yeah.

R: *muffled* enforcement things like that. Right but it's not those things that like for hundreds of years it was additional negative. And when we need positive and good it's transcendent.

IR: Is there anything else?

R: People should improve their vocabularies. But that's besides the point. *laughs*

IR: You know, community learning, that's always important. I appreciate you sharing all this. 

R: Oh, of course.

IR: This is also, technically, my first interview with My Meadville so I coordinate the program, and so I've gone through the training just because I organize them by coordinating, and so this is a really good exercise for me to jump in every time we talk about something that I know a little about um but I also don't want to miss this opportunity to tell you guys about stuff that you might be interested in.

R: No of course. 

IR: Um This is great... So first of all so my- this project is like I said there's a lot of different ways to get involved and we need people that are comfortable talks to people about their stories and where they are and sharing them too like we got to get that point so um-

R: Are you guys gonna do any type of like video compilation

IR: We'd love to yeah

R: Hey uh I have a ton of online experience *overlapping* if you ever need videos `I have a business card

IR: Yeah, that's awesome so like we're working with a couple of other people but like we would love to do 

R: I'd just love to work on something like that. Because that's something I'm good at that's something I'm talented at and like I said it's people investing in things they're talented at. there's musicians, I would love to be involved in a way that I can use my personal talents.

IR: Yeah, so would that would be cool, that would be amazing, because that would be awesome for us to just be able to like share about the project. Stories...

R: Yeah like little bits like stories. Even if it's not their whole interview just like one of these events, you guys have a table set up where people can come over and there's one question about the community, and they can answer it and you can get more

IR: Yeah and that would be awesome because well Jason who does Meadvillecalendar. com they do some, like he does a lot of video of stuff too

R: Julie Wilson gave me his email because he does that and he does virtual computer effects or something

IR: Yeah well she's trying to start the media services agency the digital services agency at Allegheny. Um So we've been trying to get him, but he's just so busy and like has all these other kinds of visions which is like awesome because we could tie in but we still can't capture his attention. to do it. A bunch of other talents that are doing this have put together videos. that kind of compile people's stories and it's kind of interesting because you do a video interview with someone that is totally different than this other person, but they're saying the same thing and to like show that visually would be really impactful, so that would be amazing. 

R: I know where all the places to show off... I can't think of the specific word.

IR: Showcase?

R: Yes, that was the exact word thank you. laughs

IR: Yeah no and that would be awesome and you got connections and that would be great too. Because that' something we're looking at networks and whose connected to what group.

R: And communities. You need something to do while you're off work. 

IR: I mean you could bring your baby to this job.

R: Oh yeah I'll bring him and go.

IR: That's awesome that would be amazing. yeah we would love to get you.

R: *muffled* I just blow over people when I'm doing films

IR: Well that would be that would be amazing, I would absolutely love to like yeah

R: I literally been dying to try some of-

R: Yeah he's been trying so hard because he has his equipment and he's always like I wanna do something I wanna film something and soon enough you're going to have a little life to film and follow Finn around with the camera. But this was would actually give you something to like you know use as look what I did.

R: Because when I do something, it basically becomes a part of my portfolio. I can see one guy then connect to somebody else, you know networking.

IR: Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah so that would be fantastic um cool yeah we've got meeting coming up for I don't know, so I don't know so I don't how best for you to get involved. Like if but we would absolutely love to have you. *muffled* yeah I would definitely love to get so you just wanna write down like the best way to get in touch with me. Both of you. it would be great. Muffled. Yeah that would be awesome. Yeah there should be *muffled* we're doing these concerts that are every second saturday so conjunction at the market happens and then at night we're doing concerts on top of the parking garage. Yeah so those have been cool. 

R: Especially for the summer

IR: yeah um so check them out. um saturday there's a picnic at the playground in fifth ward the playground there.

R: Yeah go swing around-

IR: ok. Yeah so we're at the playground, fifth ward.  and um it'll just be like a bunch of music and like a bunch of community groups and like art projects for kids and stuff. which will be cool.

R: Great.

IR:Muffled *laughs* And then thursday so tomorrow is the preparation for that. the same group doing that that cleaned up diamond is cleaning up the park.

R: Oh nice, which one is that?

IR: Like Lake Avenue and Park. And like `surrounding area

R: That's awesome though that they pull all that together.

IR: Yeah yeah there's a lot of crossover of the groups too. so 

R: Which is great I mean that's the basis of the community. 

R: I'll see where is best to reach me, I'll check my email obviously but it's like 

IR: Oh great, really important. And then the last thing I wanted to mention um have you heard of Meadville Time trade? So it's our local time banking system

R: Oh I think I've heard of that

IR: You might know New Camp Stable family

R: Stability Home 

IR: mhm yeah so her mom borrowed new camp started this local time bank. And we just had a potluck on Monday, but there's a potluck every month. So you just bring food and get to know each other. The idea is that like everyone offers different services and then like uses different services. *Muffled* yeah she might, so like I do child care at the church every weekend I get an hour. And then I cash that in to learn to drive a stick shift.

R: Oh that's neat.

IR: But it 

R: So it's literally like trading

IR: yeah so you can make somebody a meal, or teach the how to make a meal and you can say that that's worth an hour or two and then you get like whatever to like watch your kid eventually or yeah it could be anything yeah for sure

R: I could learn a skill I wanna learn.

IR: Yeah so you can do that stuff

R: Yeah write that down

IR: But the potlucks are a blast. like the food is always really good, meet people there

R: I'm all about anything that brings people together

IR: Yeah muffled