My name is Joey Costa and I am interviewing Jaelyn Gilbert for the My Meadville Questionnaire.  

Interviewer:  Joey

Interviewee: Jaelyn

Interviewer:  Question 1:  What do you love about the City of Meadville?

R: What I love about the City of Meadville is probably downtown Meadville because there's so many historical places down there.  And plus all of the murals down there make it a happier place.

Interviewer:  What would be one of your favorite memories of downtown Meadville or Meadville in general? 

R: Um....one of my favorite memories of Meadville in general actually happened this year with our boy’s basketball team.  They traveled to Hershey to play for the State Championship and they lost but, I mean, that's still amazing because it hasn't happened for thirty years. 

Interviewer:  Does athletics matter a lot to you about living here or just are there other things?

R: The athletics is probably my favorite part but also my family. A lot of my family lives in Meadville so I mean, that's also a good aspect of it. 

Interviewer:  Ok.  What would make staying here easier?

R: May...ok...the people that, some people here are really ignorant about everything so probably the less ignorant people around would make it easier staying here. 

Interviewer:  How would we deal with the so called "Ignorant" people in this town?

R: Umm... I guess maybe I could just ignore them all the time but some people get to me, so...

Interviewer:  Understandable.   Can you name a few things that capture the spirit of this town? 

R: The Market House, downtown is definitely an older building so I mean that actually does capture the whole meaning of Meadville as in the whole downtown because they are all old buildings so I mean.  

Interviewer:  Is the history ah... an important thing to continue in Meadville's future or are there other things?  

R: The history's great but I feel like they should start upgrading things because as time goes on people are going to be more about technology and not about the past.

Interviewer:   Umm.... and because of technology what would you want your children or grandchildren to experience when they live or grow up in Meadville or if they just visit Meadville in general.

R: I don't believe any of children or grandchildren are going to be visiting Meadville at any time so...

Interviewer:  Could you give a reason why?

R: Because I would like to get out of here and experience bigger and better things in the world.

Interviewer:  So, if you could, if you wanted to stay what could one thing like Meadville City Council change in order to make Meadville better and more enjoyable?

R: I think they should add a better youth system for all of the younger kids. 

Umm... because the more younger people we have in Meadville the more they are going to want to do things because right now there's nothing really that excites me to do in Meadville so I think a better youth system would be better.

Interviewer:  Alright.  Thank you.  