CONNECTION NUMBER 016

Transcriber: Erik Orta

3/11/18

Interviewer: Kathy Lee

Interviewee: Chelsea Lee Tucker

January 19th, 2018

Interviewer: So what do you love about the city of Meadville?

R: Um, it its a place where you can get help for mental illness.

(pause)

R: And they also give you shelter for homelessness.

(pause)

R: Um, I think that’s about it.

Interviewer: What’s your, do you have a favorite memory of living in Meadville? Have you lived in Meadville very long?

R: No, just since before Christmas for like two days.

Interviewer: Ok. So um, so. You're gunna be staying in Meadville foe a while?

R: I think so yea.

Interviewer: Ok and why it says would you why what do you like about Meadville that would make you stay here?

R: Um, the help.

Interviewer: Anything that you like about the town in particular?

R: Mmmm, the people.

Interviewer: Tell me what you like about the people.

R: They’re nice.

Interviewer: Anything else about the people?

R: Um

(pause)

R: No nothing.

Interviewer: Where are some place that you go in town that you really like?

R: CVS, Walgreens, uh, the mall.

Interviewer: The downtown mall?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: I guess that’s all there is, huh.

R: Yea

(pause)

R: And um the read program.

Interviewer: And where is that located?

R: Hush. I’m not quite sure.

Interviewer: Is it downtown still?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: And you like, you're going there now to learn to read?

R: I want go there.

Interviewer: Oh you wanna go there?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: I’ve heard its a good program.

R: It is. I want to um read better, do math better, do social studies and science better.

Interviewer: What do you think doing those things better is gunna help you in your life?

R: It will help me pass exam like the SATs and the uh exam to get into college.

Interviewer: What do you wanna go when you go to college?

R: I’m thinking about going for CNA to help be an RN.

Interviewer: Like helping people?

R: Mmhmm

Interviewer: Tell me about that.

R: Well, um, I saved two people in my lifetime, and I liked doing it so...

Interviewer: How did you save them?

R: Well my sister was drowning in a swimming pool. Uh, this guy I brought home ended up with a car that fell on top of him...

Interviewer: And you were there to help.

R: Mmhmm

Interviewer: It made you feel good right?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: Oh that’s great.

Interviewer: So you're hoping that the help you're getting now is going to help you then get to the read program, and be able to do those things.  Its really great.

Interviewer: I know you're kind of new around town, but is there anything when you think of Meadville you kinda think about. People or places or things, kind of jump out at you as, being important?

R: Um, they help you to learn how to live independently.

Interviewer: So the, the services that you’re getting here from chaps are helping you do those things.

R: Mmhmm

Interviewer: What do you think you would miss in Meadville if is wasn’t here anymore?

R: The help.

Interviewer: Kind of an obvious one huh?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: And um. Let me turn my page here. And what about Meadville is important to continue into the future? Probably.

R: Um

(pause)

R: Um, learning to live independently.

(pause)

Interviewer: If you could change one thing about Meadville what would you change, to make it better?

R: The confusion of walking around.

(both laughing)

Interviewer: Ya haven't quite figured it out yet, huh?

R: No.

Interviewer: What do you think would help you not be so confused?

R: Having somebody who can walk around with me.

Interviewer: If I gave you a magic wand and I said you can make one wish today for Meadville, what would your wish be?

R: Everything being in like the same block.

(both laughing)

Interviewer: You would wish it was a little easier to get around, huh?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: Is there anything else that you would like to tell me about Meadville? 

R: Um. I made some good friends here.

Interviewer: You've made some good friends?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: Anything else?

R: Um no that’s it.

Interviewer: Well thank you very much, I appreciate your time.

R: Yup.