Connection Number 12

Interviewer=Ir

Interviewee=Ie Dawn

 

Ir: Alright. So...  the first -Hi Dawn.

R: Hi

Ir: The First Question is uh can you tell me something about the city of Meadville, something that happened to you or something that happens here regularly that reflects what is great or what you love about this community, or what you like about this community?

R: That's a lot of things. So something that happened here regularly that reflects on why you like living here. I like the school systems. 

Ir: Ok. Thats good. And that happens regularly. What do you like about about them?

R: That *pause* they're into their students. I mean they're there for them, when they're struggling, they're there for them. And I think that's why my son is gonna be a successful person. Is because of these school systems.

Ir: That's great. And then why do you stay in, or what brought you to Meadville?

R: The schools.

Ir: There you go. You're all about the schools.

Ie. Yeah I am. 

Ir: And you used to live in Pittsburgh? 

R: Uh-huh

Ir: And so you decided you didn't want to raise Tommy in there?

R: I wouldn't mind raising him in Pittsburgh if they had these school systems.

Ir: Yeah, right. If you could transplant the school to Pittsburgh that would be kind of fun.

R: Yeah

Ir: And then, what do you think is the spirit of the town, what captures the spirit of the town? What are some of the things?

R: The people.

Ir: The people... alright. And what about the people?

R: They're friendly... personable, I got great neighbors *they laugh* it's true.

Ir: And then, um... what captures the spirit, the people, that's very nice nice. What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't here, if it was gone? What would you miss? Is there anything you would miss in Meadville that if it just disappeared tomorrow, if it wasn't here it was gone, would you- would it not be like Meadville anymore? Not even physical, something that that happens here, something that happens traditionally, course you don't go out much.

R: That's it throw that in there. *laughs*

Ir: Well...sorry. You can cross that out. But you know I mean you're not around town that much, as far as events.

R: No, but I-

Ir: But you're aware of them. 

R: I am aware of the light of night.

Ir: You are? Ok, so those kind of events, you'd miss?

R: yeah, seasonal ones, especially Christmas

Ir: That's nice, yeah.`Seasonal events, that something that would-

R: That's something that Pittsburgh, they have it but the town's so big.

Ir: yeah, the smallness of the town helps a lot. You can kind of touch down with things. 

R: exactly

Ir: Feel like you're a part of- And what do you think about- what would you think would Meadville need to be continuing to the future? What would you like to see Meadville develop, or lacks?

R: A lot more help for the people that need it in Meadville. As far as *pause* I see a lot of people addicted to drugs, their mental health is bad, but that's all good up here, the mental health systems are good up here, it's just that... I don't know.

Ir: I think a lot of small towns deal with the drug problem.

R: yeah, that's true too.

Ir: Pause... What do you think- what do you see that would be uh elements that would keep Meadville growing and being continue being a good place to live?

R: Businesses.

Ir: yeah. pause. A little bit more business. And uh, what would you change to make Meadville even better, or if you could have one wish for Meadville, what would it be?

R: It would be more stores. I don't like Erie *laughs*

Ir: That's right, you'd hate to have to go to Erie to get stuff.

R: yeah. 

Ir: More stores, ok. Anything you could see that could be good for our town as far as-

R: fixing up the old homes, the eyesores.

Ir: Yeah, improving the neighborhoods huh? yeah, because there's a lot of really run down houses. Alright, I think we're done. Thank you, Dawn. That wasn't too hard was it?