Unitarian story circle LS_2/17

Lee Scandinaro

George Staville

Joan Mason

Dan Hunter

Meryn Spence

Matt Macaleny:  NO Release

Autumn Vogel

Can you tell something about Meadville that you really love?

R: First thing, I like the way it looks - I mean there are so many western PA industrial communities that look like you're built around a factory and this city does not look like its built around a factory, so much attention has been paid to having the Diamond as the center of the town and just having it look nice and presentable. And thats the first thing I thought when I came here - and that was the mid 70s - that I thought it was an attractive town. 

I really love the markets on Saturday mornings - just all - its a wonderful hub, and there's lots of people to talk to and lots delicious vegetables and you just see people of all ages hanging out on a Saturday morning - I love it. 

R: : I love the Market house on a Saturday morning, after I take some junk there, some recycling cans from my house to the recycling center into the junkyard sometimes I stop by there sometimes I buy something. 

R: My favorite thing about Meadville is that we don't have to go very far to get something that we would need - so if you live here or anywhere or around here, you don't have to go to Erie to get things. And I think I like that there is space to be used in Meadville that is not used. 

Can you say more about that? 

uh, well I guess mostly its public - public space that either you've been told that you can't use it anymore or the general understanding is you can't use it anymore - unless you ask permission, and don't ask permission because you'll be told no. (laughter) That's my understanding really of what governs the use of our open space, whether its a park or block or some other open space. 

That's called The Commons, I think

R: The Commons - yeah, common spots why isn't it filled - Someone said yesterday that they'd like to sit in that common spot that they don't know where to find in Meadville. If that's what we're on the same page of common and space because she didn't know if she could just do that but how nice it would be to be in one spot and it's okay (mn: space to gather in community? )

Is there any spot in Meadville that you see potential for that? Like a park or block or abandoned building? 

R: Well I could get too specific, but pretty much just around the borders of Meadville - you know I think a lot has to change how we can get into those empty spaces, which there are some people that do are able to get uh are opening or get a big group of people to use it just for a moment and that's - if they continue to be okay with that then we could probably fill in the retail because now we know its okay to get in or out - or whoa, they did that you know, its very nice, and that's what gives someone who doesn't have money to open a small or large business to go ahead and do it - where I guess now I'm allowed to use that space where maybe before you know, well screw this place, you know they're just saying it because we've talked about it but never tried it, we can reverse that then we'll be trying to do stuff and we'll go from there. There's so many banks in this town somebody - they should be starting to do something with that, its a giant need.  The common will come, but its not here yet - you have to provide it or say that its okay and then people will learn that its okay and to trust it and we don't have that here yet in my opinion. 

So why do you all stay in Meadville or what brought you here? 

R: Well I know that my children are now in their thirties, and two of them live in San Francisco and one lives in NY city - so I was thinking you know would I want to move some place at some point in time and I really chewed on that possibility for a long time and I eventually settled it by saying no - I really love my house here, the real estate prices are very reasonable - um, and I have, what I consider, well its a historic house near the College, and its on the 1840 map and it used to be the Allegheny men's dining hall in the 50s before they had a place to eat on campus. And its not very big so it must a bit a lot of students didn't eat, but uh - that's important to me and I know that if I go to a more metropolitan place I will have just not even a tenth of the space where I am now.  Umn, and I fell in love with that house the first minute I saw in the April of 1985 and I bought it within 24 hours. Um, and I love that location because I can simply walk across the street and go to activities on campus - speakers, presentations, films...they used to be a lot more open to the community and they would send out a memo - it was actually called memo, and they would mail it to people that were interested in finding out what was happening at the College. In the past they've had really nationally and internationally known speakers, more so than they do now. But there are some things that I think the College should do in light of the fact that it is so well funded - I do think that with it's expansion the College has eaten up a lot of land that was previously on the tax base, I mean for such things as parking lots, dorm space actually for students, and it was originally said it was gonna be a child care center, but it didn't become a child care center unless you want to consider children to include students of the college, um but I think that its gonna become essential to the economy of this area that the entities that take up space and that is taxable space- they are going to make a payment in lieu of taxes, especially for any property that's not used for teaching - I mean anything that houses students, anything I mean those students use a lot of services from this community and I know even this church which is the UU we make at least on occasion payment in lieu of taxes, um so I think those sorts of things, if you have true community spirit and you really appreciate the fact that some policeman or fireman is gonna come by your place, and the police are certainly called enough to the campus, especially on weekends I guess that it would really show good faith on the part of the College to say here we realize that we utilize these services and you know they could certainly get a lot of good publicity for it to because certainly a lot of people are very bitter about having to pay so many taxes and its going only up the more that properties are taken off the tax base.  I guess I should add to what I started is the reason that I stay is not only my house, but I think that the education for my children was good, had 3 children educated through here that all did very well in college and had a good academic base, and I also love my church because there is not another Unitarian Church like this with this sort of historic background going back to the holder of the Dutch land grant here, and there was actually a theological school here until may 70 years ago that had maybe 100 years in existence that is now part of the University of Chicago - the Meadville Lumbar Theology School.  But I love it here and I don't think I'd ever find another Church of this denomination that's in a town this size, um, and I wouldn't want to leave my friends that are here.  I love the northern life - I'm from the South and there was just too much powdered sugar down there - you know - in terms of how people are maybe a little too careful of each other and there's a lot of sort of surface interaction, and whereas here I think the people are real. 

Back to so why do you stay in Meadville...

R: Well, I wonder why I stay sometimes because I am staying - you know quite invested, have a house, um you know I have one kid that's still in town and I have friends and you know I know - and I feel comfortable down town and it's close, so I feel comfortable in town, but sometimes you know you think that maybe the grass is greener someplace else, like maybe I'd like to try someplace else, but that would be quite a leap, so I suspect that I won't and maybe as I do less work and have more time as I grow older I might maybe travel some out of town, but stay in town - but that may not even happen either because I'm not a big traveler - but I do, I wonder that myself, why I stay, how long I stay, and the reason I got here - I'm quite local, my hometown is only 45 minutes south, and Barb's hometown is only 45 minutes north, and Kyle our oldest kid was going into 7th grade, and we were bouncing around and I really wanted to get him a home town - so I knew that it was kind of in the middle, but it was also a good town for music and art cuz I'd been coming to this town by chance - and I'd even come to this church for Cuzzies Jazz Jam's - I'd tie in a trip here coming home from visiting my mom's house and I'd come here to Jazz Jam and then continue on up to Erie  - so I knew it was a good place to try, and you know once you try, its a pretty big investment to remodel a house and work and meet people and be with people uh yeah - it would be a major deal to leave and I probably wouldn't do that. 

R: Um, so I came to Meadville because I go to Allegheny, but Meadville and being involved with people in Meadville is what made me stay - I'd actually thought about transferring because I wasn't sure if Allegheny was right for me, but once I got to know people in town, um, students from the HS and middle school and from Allegheny, um I just really enjoyed the community here, so that's why I stayed. 

We're actually equidistant from Cleveland, Buffalo, and Pittsburgh - used to be in Linesville which is about 15 miles from here, they had a sign that said 500 miles to Chicago, 500 miles to NY City, (Laughter)

I want to sort of dig in a little deeper to something that George mentioned, he knew this was a place where arts and culture was, um and maybe we can all think through a little bit of what is the spirit of our town, what is it that really drives this town?  Or maybe you can even name things that capture that spirit. 

R: It used to be too large and industrial, Talon Zipper had its origins here and had two or three different locations and Avtecs also went back a number of decades making man made fibers, and when those left, I think there was sort of a feeling, of boy what's gonna take the place?  And of course we still have the College and the Hospital here which are definitely necessary for the survival of this town, and it concerns me that they say rural hospitals - 25% of them closed within the last decade, and if the healthcare goes the way it looks to come the new Presidency, they foresee more hospitals closing, but we have a very good hospital system here and with 2 new instillations, and so I think we serve a very large area so I expect the hospital is gonna remain viable for a long time. 

What was it you were asking? 

What things capture the spirit of our town? 

R: Well I think we are actually stuck just like everybody else in places with half democrats and half republicans, I think the spirit is kind of bruised here like everywhere -

That's just it - there's just two different thoughts, and its like 2 different teams, and everybody's got their affiliation and their colors and nobody really gives and I see that impact - yeah I just see such different camps in this town, and its not good for this town anymore and its not for whole country and I don't see a way out actually. 

R: The Martin Luther King Dinner tomorrow is very a very integrated and wonderful celebration and I don't know how far back it actually goes but from what I can remember its a well- attended by the whole community included one or more judges, the mayor and its filmed and its shown on the local tv.  Which is one thing that is nice is that the local tv will film things - presentations - or various things at the senior center or presentations such as the MLK Dinner and that uh, I think that people do come together on that.  And there's usually concerts in the park in the summer on Thursday evenings that are free and open to the public and are pretty well attended I think and also the Northwest band that comes here and performs in the gazebo - that was given by a man who had a piano shop here, Buellen, and he specified in his will that the plans that he had laid out were not to be changed - that the town either took it or left it behind, it was a very simple process and so the people voted to take it, and its been important for everything from weddings to presentations and I think that its a really nice symbol of sort of the center of town. 

R: You know those concerts that she mentioned in the Diamond, I do feel that those are attended by Republicans and Democrats it seems to be a mix down there, and you know I hadn't thought of that but that's one positive place that people seem to come from all over and sit in the same park together and listen to music - I could be wrong it's hard to say who's on which team, but it looks to be a pretty diverse bunch and everybody seems happy. 

R: I don't know how this translates to spirit, but somehow in my brain it is translating, but there's this like a trend or spirit, if you will, of a small town that is larger than it is....um small town that looms large - I think on all different ends of political spectrums you've got people here who see Meadville as something big, right so its either, it looms large because its historically equidistant from all of these other cities you know, or because you know oil is so close, or because of the zipper and all the legacy of manufacturing and you've still got current current manufacturing - and people are proud you know that you've still got Ainsworth and that is all over, and Channellock and the fact that that's huge - and Accutec is making parts for airplanes, and you know war machines, but its big, and maybe you could argue the other end of the political spectrum have similarly big ideas about Meadville and what it could be, I don't really know exactly how to articulate it, but it is a small town that looms large for the people that are here. People have big dreams for Meadville and um, and see it, and see it as as I don't know, something large - and for some people maybe that's a hopeful thing and for some people maybe something is lost, I don't know...

R: You know one thing that we're lucky about is that we're in an area of the country that we probably won't have to worry about a drought and um the great lakes are bring protected and the French Creek system, there is more and more land being acquired by trust or gift so that the uniqueness and the purity of that water system is a source of pride to the people here. 

R: Maybe that's what it is, maybe its pride across the spectrum for the natural resources, for the industry, for the history, for the stuff and I don't know if it comes up because its challenged and people feel they have to defend it or if it really just is this kind of natural pride, but I think that people are proud - no everyone, if you're looking on FYI Crawford County, not everyone is proud of Meadville, but I think that there is some kind of pride in the spirit. 

R: Well, we're a county seat, and we're just now building a major league building that is some part of what, the prison system uh, you know, people will be worked through there, you know the people that are not as fortunate as the people that are working them through there and that's one of the things we're about you know - we're a county seat, we've got the courthouse and this new annex to the Courthouse and that's a a big part of our skeleton, and I'm not so sure that I like that. 

So, let me ask cause people have mentioned different things - is there a place or a person or an idea, that if it was no longer was here - would you feel like this wasn't Meadville anymore? 

My Church

So to you your church is Meadville

R: That's an anchor for me and because of its uniqueness that's a large part of why I decided that I didn't want to move, you know I've been to a number of different UU Churches across the country whenever I'd visit or for special convocations and I haven't found a church that is nearly as meaningful to me - now everybody might think that -but for me I couldn't find anything worthwhile to move affiliated with the Church, I would really miss this place. 

I like the brick streets

Probably Diamond Park

So what about Diamond Park - What makes it You're Meadville?

R: Um, every time that I am there - sometimes I'll just go sit on a bench, sometimes I'm there for an event, there's just always so many people walking through it, walking around it and I don't know its just a place where people - they don't always congregate, but its just a really great space to used by things but also to just be and to watch - and there's a lot of important and historical buildings around it, so yeah it represents Meadville.

R: You know historically, there are markers here in town, we were one of, I don't know if we were the first area to desegregate schools, but it happened early on when a petition was presented to Judge Church because he wanted his kids to go the school nearest his home and Judge Church okay'd it and I think that this was the first place in Pennsylvania, maybe further than Pennsylvania that had a direct primary with regard to - uh - those I think are both pretty important at least from the stand point of a small generating those sorts of progressive um and important long range changes in institutions.  

R: The Market house on a Saturday morning in the summer - if that were taken away it wouldn't be Meadville anymore for me. 

R: If you look at the courthouse as you go in its not gonna hit you in the face but there are columns on either side of the entry doors that show industry and agriculture and they were um designed by Carl Hetian who was a member of this church and was a professor of art at the college and um, its interesting to just take a look at that as you go in - its uniquely Meadville - 

I've only ever noticed the metal detectors when you walk in the court house (giggles) - I've never noticed anything else...next time.

R: I do know when the KKK decided to come here three or four decades ago and they wanted to stand on the Courthouse steps, and that was permissable freedom of speech, but I do know of the alternative of the community event and that was for everyone in the community to come down to the bicentennial cabin for a picnic - and uh, there wasn't a whole lot of attendance at the KKK meeting. 

So June, of the things you've mentioned, which you've mentioned several, and I know that you weren't here to experience all of them, so why are those important to you? 

Because I think that they are a positive stroke and I'm proud that they originated in this community. 

R: So what's the ideas behind them that you would like to see continue into the future. 

Respect for everybody, uh Proportional representation (without hacking from Russia), uh, I think that we continue to think liberally, but not so liberally that it's off the wall, I mean I think the College is probably considered a pretty conservative institution but I know that there are probably a lot of efforts probably through students' initiation to maintain ecological and energy saving initiatives, uh, inclusion of all students and the right to freely represent - uh - to feel safe on campus no matter who you are. 

What do other folks think - things that are happening now that they would really like to see continued into the future.

R: The theaters - movie theater and playhouses

Yeah, theater is huge, and really really good in this town and has been, well I've been here about 25 something years and its always been good, amazingly good. 

Local participation - behind the scenes, yeah, I mean its always worked well, and I made my children go on principle and now they're theater people, gained an appreciation because of this area for theater. 

R: I think right now there is a real sense of scrappy - get it done - something going on - people are just trying to make things happen - something tangible maybe, and maybe that's a reaction to not having felt heard in the past or feeling kind of disappointed with what's been or dissatisfied with what's been, but regardless of the motivation there's a particular energy right now, and work that people are just doing - out of the goodness of their hearts and out of a desire to see a better town or more exciting town or more fun town, or a town that's better for their kids or something - but people are just getting it done and finding ways to do it and um I think that's awesome, and that's something that I want to continue and maybe even percolate into more people doing it and maybe even more support and resources behind it - if they were more listened to, maybe they wouldn't have to scrap it together, they'd actually have money and support. 

R: I like the size of the town, you can get anywhere in 5 minutes. 

There was a traffic jam here on Friday afternoon

Hah - was there a flood? 

No, 

So why are you always late? Hah,

Actually, I'm doing better, I got reamed out by the judge. 

Mereyn did you have something about that one? 

R: Um, Yeah - Autumn's thoughts actually stirred something in me, I've been lucky to be here at this time where there is so much vibrancy and there's so many people just getting on board with different programs and events and I just always have been a part of the Meadville where that is, because I have been here a short time, and there's just so much going on and so, and that really excites me, and I want to pass that along to my peers, and kind of to spread that onto campus more like I really love when students are more involved with what's going on in Meadville, because there's so much here.  

R: There's actually a large support system here to basically help people to battle addiction - its associated with the AA and NA system and its because we're only 2 hours from Akron, and its the longest running group, and this is continuously and they don't miss a meeting, and one here was founded the day after Dday, and that's only 10 years after AA itself was founded in Akron.  And its a big problem anywhere - I mean, I guess only recently there was a problem with a stronger than usual supply that resulted in more deaths than usual.  But um, I think that there is good sobriety here and good participation in the NA and AA groups, there's generally a meeting almost every morning and there's an evening meeting pretty much as well - and it hasn't always been that way someone was saying the other day that 30 or 40 years ago there were 3 meetings in town, and there are certainly a lot more than that now. 

R: I also have  vested interest in downtown right now - that I'm particularly excited about, you know people talk about what used to be in downtown and then there was this just this kind of huge void and downtown was dead and I think its um, not back to where it was and maybe it won't ever be, maybe it'll be something different than that and that's okay, but I think its people are um excited about that, there are some great local businesses around here and a good focus on that right now. 

R: Well, speaking of tax base, like you know that one building on the corner of park and Arch, the taxes were like nearly $4500 per year which you know is nearly $500 dollars a month. So you try to open a business downtown and you need to try to generate $500 dollars a month out of the gate just for taxes and its

Are you talking next to Grace restaurant that brick building?

Yeah, mmhmm. 

It's not even a very big building. 

It's reasonable and I forget the exact amount, but I think $4500 bucks in taxes

Yeah- I mean that's a real concern, I mean taxes are steep in town

Well, its a different game for downtown now

R: Right and its just gonna, you know it takes more than a vested interest in downtown to make a business work

Its gonna take more taxes from tax-free folks

Its gonna probably take a lot of things

But its the tax - free folks I mean really this town hasn't grown, I mean I don't think that its lost a lot in the 40some years I have been here, but I don't foresee any real boom in population so the revenue has to be looked at from other sources. 

You know there was a really good article in the paper here about two weeks ago...talking about that - it was about the fire cuts - and they said hey, you know its not really about the fire cuts, its the tax base and there seemed to be a solution to it but I can't remember what.

They were talking about taxing - I don't think it would be at the same rate as everybody else, but especially when institutions are taking these over, you know it would seem to me that maybe part of the acquisition of a tax base property by a non-tax entity should carry a certain percentage of the tax it was - as part of the price, because you don't buy it free of services, you're gonna have water, street cleaning, pick up of leaves, all those different things that you're not paying for if you are tax free and that's happening more and more, the College is expanding, they own almost all of Loomis street now, and they own the 4 houses south of mine on N Main, all of which are housing students, which isn't what they said - they said it was a child care center. 

But also, there's the zipper project that's recent and that involved, there was an invitation to everybody in the community to participate if they would like, and I don't know if its even done, but 

Well you're looking at a main ingredient to it, I mean one of two main ingredients to it (zipper project) is Lee, he's helped that thing for three years, moved it forward. 

Lee: I like to think that I'm the salty and the other ingredient's the sweet.  

The other ingredient would be the Prince guy, the artist who came up with the concept, right? I mean the Center (Neighborhood Center) has been a part of it, but Lee's really been significant and the main energy moving that thing. And it is something, I went down and looked at it on Saturday morning, made a special trip down to the Creative Crust and just sat and looked at it, and it's pretty neat. 

R: Oh, shit we missed one - and its so easy to let things slip away, we let them tear the whole Talon Building down, and if we could have just kept a little corner of it, it could have been a museum, like Drake's well people go their to learn about the oil, and we just missed it. 

Well, you know there's still the one building

But the factory's gone

Yeah, but that's not the oldest building, the oldest building was part of the Theological School, and that's what they just put on the market, the one on pine (?)

We would almost have been in a position to reproduce part of the factory there you know just little like this room and we just missed it - that's our county, that was the county you know the people that make these decisions, and then those of us who are civic minded, well we missed it to and didn't say hey why not just save a corner of it and make a museum - its just so foolish - and it was just torn down. 

And now its going to be housing developments

But they didn't want the big old building and that was left standing, and I don't think they wanted that - and its a shame we didn't negotiate just a corner of it, you know for a museum for zippers, I mean god I imagine Zippo has something up there.

Yeah,

And there's a big Mac museum for pete's sake I mean you could see that

I mean that's just not very forward thinking on our parts or the people who are getting paid to do the thinking, the county commissioners, I mean it was just a mess.

Part of the problem I think is too there was contamination at the site, there was chemical contamination from Talon. 

As in, in the earth you mean

Yeah, and I don't think those housing people are still looking at it for that very reason. 

Right, I understand that. 

You know, we used to make napalm here...

What are you thinking? 

Well, I mean that's the scary thing, you wonder where things are made that are part of war, we made napalm. 

Ooh, or how bout over here at , across the big geneva swamp, my father worked there during World War II makin' bombs and thats just

Yeah, and for good reason because of the sky cover, because it was rural and nobody thought it could be anything and because we could take tremendous amounts of water, so therefore, this area was used for something not that proud. 

Well, I imagine, we're a tool town, I imagine we're making parts for all kinds of military equipment, I'm sure its a big part of our..

They are doing a 3 part thing about the origination of the bomb that includes Oakridge, Tennessee, someplace in Mexico wherever and one place in New York, so certain things, but a lot of museums are divesting and closing - you know Ghettysburg has hardly any traffic compared to what it used to have.  I don't know if its a lull in people interested in historic things. 

So let me ask just a couple more questions and then we'll head out.  Does anyone have a really great memory they want to share to tell a story about a time in Meadville - could be anything. 

R: I remember getting stuck in our VW bug - 75 or 76 whenver there was a huge amount of snow and we just petered out right there on the Diamond - and a guy who uh was also a localer - we didn't know him and he just volunteered to push us out.  And its just one of those things that you remember because we didn't know what to do because I certainly wasn't going to push anybody, and Dan had to drive it.  I think there is that kind of, good naturedness here, I think that when people see each other on the sidewalk, they don't look down at their feet. 

Something that sticks out in my mind was when I was helping out with global youth service day...I don't remember the exact name for it, um but I was just hanging out with some kids from the Sagertown Key Club and we were working on the garden at the MARC and building a bridge on a trail nearby, and it was just really nice to get to know the students and hang out and it was just a really beautiful day.  

And of course any time I go into the Creative Crust, its awesome. 

Yeah, really great atmosphere. 

R: Some of my favorite memories have been the popups that the Neighborhood Center has done, it started with the gallery and then the cafe on the Diamond.  And um both times it was just like a place to go, and especially with the cafe it was just like spending time, any time I wasn't at home or at work and even some of my work time I was just there and just the a whole array of people that would come in and just the connections that were made, and like in 3 days were so cool, and uh I remember in both instances, both in the Eldridge and the spot on the Diamond, like locking up at the end of the night, like pretending that I owned a business in town and this is like our little thing, I loved it, and I thought "this is what I want" and there are all these people here and then just locking up and going home for the day. but...

If you had a magic wand and you could change something about Meadville, what would you change? 

R: I would turn the gas station on Park Avenue into a Youth Center

Why is that important to you? 

R: Because from what I have learned from working with the Neighborhood Center and from talking to people is that kids really want a space to just hang out and do stuff, whether that's sit around and talk, do homework, play games, they just want a place to call their own. Um that's not their own home, so yeah, and I think it would be a really neat space to do that in.  

Which gas station - the one as you come across the bridge? 

Sandy's European Market

Oh yeah of Course,

Of Course

I think of meals there, not gas - yeah, its 2.57 acres

R: I think I would change, and I'm sure this is true other places, but like the mentality of scarcity, maybe, um - I think Timetrade has a great little tagline where uh there's a quote that you do Barb that says ' we have what we need when we use what have' or something and I think that maybe that's part of the energy that's going on right now is that maybe people are just like approaching things like, we don't need a lot to do this, let's just make it happen.  And I find myself falling into that same trap too, but I think at a lot of levels there's people operating on scarcity of resources or money or whatever it is, um rather than operating with kind of a mentality of abundance and resourcefulness and figuring out how we can make things work to make things happen - even if the reality is scarce, but if just treated everything like it were possible and found out ways to make it work, maybe that would be my magic wish. 

R: Mine would be to take this division that's everywhere and soften it. 

The political thing

Mmhmm, that would take a magic wand I think

And why is that important to you? 

Its just its a show stopper right out of the gate - its a separator for sure and its antagonistic and its not cooperative and its just, its gettin old. 

R: I know one of the things that I think will be good now that I'm knocking on 70 years old later this year is the idea of utilizing places that are fairly large - in that they could accomodate 10 to 15 people who are retired to form intentional communities - and I think a lot of people are terrified when they're having to cope on their own with having progressive disabilities and um this is working different places and they're doing this up in Massachussettes within our denomination, and actually the rents from one build the next one. And it seemed to work well, but I've always thought for myself that as I get older I would like to have the community of older women sort of like I am, particularly I was thinking of Unitarian women because we're all pretty forceful, but uh, my house is big enough to do that, and I don't know what sort of funding it would get, but uh I don't think a lot of people have extra loose change here. 

What would it need funding for? 

Oh, if you charge rent appropriately you have to have management because every so often someone is not going to pay rent and then you have to have rules about that - and then every now and then you might have a sour apple and you have that, and ...it has its challenges, it has its challenges, but you know its a tradeoff, but it has to be an intentional community that it takes a certain kind of person that will give up certain privileges in order to live in community - so its always going to be changing, its like any other organic thing. Its like, my kids have that - its called a residential hotel out in San Francisco, where there were 10 young professional adults that preferred not to have their own apartment with expenses of running out there are large - but the utilities are paid by the owner and the amenities are paid for - laundry, places to bring your bike in that are secure, so that thing has been done and been done well in their community. There are certain things here that could be problematic, like with the winter - they don't have that but they have gangs as an issue, so and a lot of homeless. 

You should do it Joan, that'd be awesome, open up your house

That'd be nice

I have all kinds of information on housing cooperatives too

And I think it could also expand, I have a spare lot

Yeah,

So does anything else have any final words to say?  No, okay thank you so much. 