KL003

Kathy Lee

Autumn Beers

January 19, 2017

I: What do you love about the city of Meadville?

R: I sense that there is a good community of agencies that help other people in every aspect of life - and I think Meadville is a nice size town for family oriented kind of things - not too big or too spread apart everything is right here together.

I: What matters to you the most about living here? 

R: I guess the sense of unity in the community

I: How do you see that sense of unity? 

R: uh, like agencies and events are coordinating together and working together to provide I guess a nice set of activities - they're courteous to each other

I: Do you have a favorite memory of living in Meadville - like when you think of Meadville you think of a specific time or thing? 

R: uh, I didn't actually grow up in Meadville, but my children did, and they made good friends here

I: So you have good memories from your children growing up

R: mmhmm - and love the hot air balloons

I: So what brought you and why do you stay?

R: um employment brought my husband and I here and we just lived here for a long time, so its home. 

I: What do you think are some of the things that capture the spirit of Meadville? 

R: The Market House is one thing that really values what the town meant and how it is now.

I: How so? 

R: Well, so they have a variety of activities there as well as events and community gatherings

I: What other things capture the essence of Meadville? 

R: Um, a lot of the history - like the zipper was invented here, and how its recognized with beauty with the gardens and stuff like that 

I: What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't here anymore? 

R: The collaboration between agencies and activities and 

I: if something were gone that made it not seem like Meadville anymore?

R: if something was gone - I think um, like with the religion part of it - there's a good connection with all the community churches and finding the needs for the people I think if that was gone, it would be so, like colder - I don't know how to say it.  That's a hard question...

I: What do you think is important in Meadville to continue into the future? 

R: Like the routine things that happen, like the activities or events like the hot air balloons or the Memorial services and um and the car show downtown kind of thing. 

I: What are you hoping that your grandchildren experience as they grow up here?

R: Well they don't live here, but I would hope that they would get to see the hot air balloons and that - I'm stuck on hot air balloons. 

I: What would you change to make Meadville better? 

R: To see the value of what we have - and different perspectives I guess. 

I: Can you explain that a little bit more? 

R: I guess what I mean is that people don't see the work behind the scenes - people making stuff happen and getting people more involved. 

I: How do you think we can get people more involved? 

R: hmm, I haven't really thought about that - I guess, try to help them understand the value of it - I know it's hard to get volunteers and that people are busy and working and 

I: If you could have one wish for Meadville, what would it be? 

R: make a wish...that's a tough one...to continue to improve what we have and promote what we have more I guess - 

I: Anything else you'd like to tell me about Meadville? 

R: my mind's a little blank, I guess 

I: well thank you very much