20170511_103636.mp4

Interviewer: Sarah Greggs

Interviewed: unknown

Location: unknown

SG What do you love about the City of Meadville?

R: I love all the fun things you can do with friends and family and all the activities you can participate in, and I feel it's like a strong little community. That we all work together and have fun.

SG So what matters to you most about living here?

R: What matters to me most is my friends here. Because I feel friends (and a lot of my family is here too), friends and family are a very important thing in your life. 

SG What is your favorite memory of living in Meadville?

R: My favorite memory about living in Meadville is probably playing baseball and doing all these fun games at baseball.

SG So what would make staying here easier?

R: Some stuff to make living here easier would be cutting taxes, creating more jobs, and making it so we're more of a more strong economic... economy.

SG What things capture the spirit of our town?

R: Probably all the history we have, because our history dates clear back to the 1700s. And there's just so many things you can do like the Baldwin Reynolds House, and even Diamond Park is history.

SG So what would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't here? What, if it were gone, would make Meadville not like Meadville anymore?

R: Probably if everybody just left that were my friends it would make me miss Meadville. Like if all the activities were gone like bowling and putt-putt it would not be Meadville anymore.

SG So what about Meadville is important to continue into the future?

R: Probably strong friendships and the fair. The fair creates lots of money for us and its a fun activity too that needs to keep on going as a tradition.

SG What do you want your children or grandchildren to experience here as they grow up?

R: I want them to experience all the things you can do like bowling and like even some of the restaurants like Eddies and Casey's. They need to experience that local charm.

SG What would you change to make Meadville even better? Or, if you could have one wish for Meadville, what would it be?

R: My one wish for Meadville would be to make all the houses look nice. 