CONNECTIONNUMBER000

Ewan Malenfant

1/25/18

Interviewer: Patrick 

Patrick: Ok, first question. What do you love about the city of Meadville?

R: I like how it’s like, very community based, and that you basically know like everyone, and everybody supports everything.

Patrick: Ok, then what matters to you most about living here?

R: Probably the community again ‘cause it’s like, very welcoming to people.

Patrick: Um, so what would be your favorite memory of Meadville? Or like, an event that you like in meadville or…

R: Probably like, all of the parades that we have and stuff, it’s just like, a tradition that we’ve always had in a small town.

Patrick: Ok so what brought you to meadville and why do you stay?

R: Um, my family and the family business that we have in Meadville. And I stay because I’m not old enough to move alone, outside of the city yet. 

Patrick: Would you move alone  if you could?

R: No.

Patrick: You wanna stay in Meadville that’s good, what would make staying here easier for you?

R: Probably like, like if the downtown had more like fun shops that people could go to ‘cause a lot of it now’s like, run down like, businesses sometimes but, I think if we like up, the town, a little bit.

Patrick: Um, so what things capture the spirit of our town? As you said it was community based.

R: Probably like, if you go like, around town, and like you see like Bulldog Nation signs and stuff and that’s like our school sports that everybody’s supporting and like, you always see flyers up everywhere for new businesses and everybody’s just supportive of everything. 

Patrick: So going off that what would you miss in meadville if it wasn’t here, and what if it were gone, would make Meadville not seem like Meadville anymore?

R: Umm, if Meadville wasn’t here I’d definitely miss like, the community again, because like if you go into like other like big cities like New York or even Erie like, its larger and not everybody like, is together, and I definitely miss that idea.

Patrick: So what if it were gone would make Meadville seem not like Meadville anymore like what's one thing in Meadville that just, yells out Meadville? 

R: Probably the historic stuff all over town like you go downtown and you see like these signs saying like, who was here like, with the french, with french creek and stuff. 

Patrick: Ok so what about meadville is important to continue in the future?

R: The historic and like, side of the town and like keep like, informing like younger kids about it, and then the smaller businesses and make sure they’re like, thriving and not have like huge department store come in and like, take them out.

Patrick: What do you want your grandchildren or ch… laughs … what do you want your children or grandchildren to experience here when they grow up? Or somewhere else, what do you want them to grow up in?

R: A good community. And having the experiences that like, I’ve had in Meadville.

Patrick: What would you change to make Meadville seem even better, or if you could have one wish for meadville what would it be?

R: A smoothie place, I think that would be so much fun to have like, a place where teenagers can go and stuff ‘cause I mean there are a couple places in Meadville but a lot of them aren’t like, easy to get to sometimes and It’s just, like I think it would be a large attraction.

Patrick: Great. 