Ewan Malenfant

Connection Number 018

 

Note: Very poor recording quality, transcription has many missing parts.

Interviewer: Okay I am interviewing you for My Meadville, we're an organization that guides people's thoughts um, and opinions on what they want to see in Meadville. Um, and you will be being recorded during this interview, is that indiscernible (basically asks if it's okay to record)?

R: Yeah.

Interviewer: Okay. Can you tell me something about the city of Meadville, something that happened to you or something that happens on a regular basis that reflects what is great or what you love about this community?

R: Um...entire response indiscernible 

Interviewer: Um, what matters to you most about living here?

R: Um...indiscernible. Um, just some... indiscernible.

Interviewer: Okay, what is your favorite of living here?

R: Um... probably... when indiscernible.

Interviewer: Okay I'm gonna ask the question... some of these are... 

Unknown: What's the question? indiscernible 

Interviewer: Yeah. 

Unknown: Okay can you read it out loud and indiscernible.

Interviewer: Okay so it's, why do stay and what brought you to Meadville?

next 16 seconds indiscernible 

Interviewer: Okay why do you stay in Meadville?

R: Um, well first off I don't really actually indiscernible...

Interviewer: So even if you did have the choice to go somewhere else you would stay here?

R: Um, probably yeah just cause indiscernible... and my families here so...

Interviewer: What things capture the spirit of our town?

R: Um... I mean I just indiscernible our sports are basketball football. Indiscernible a lot of people come out to support it.

Interviewer: What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't here, what if it were gone would make, would make Meadville seem like not Meadville anymore?

R: Could you say that again?

Interviewer: What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't here? What if it were gone would make... Okay, can we pause again. laughs. Voices heard talking, hard to decipher. 

Interviewer:  What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't here, what if it were gone would make Meadville seem like not Meadville anymore?

next several seconds indiscernible.

Unknown: Like one thing that makes Meadville Meadville, that one thing. 

R: Um, like one thing I love most about Meadville is like, like... the people. Cause they like indiscernible 

Interviewer: Okay what are some of the places or things in Meadville other than indiscernible.

R: Um indiscernible.

Interviewer: Oh, so some of the restaurants here.

R: Yeah yeah.

Interviewer: Oh okay. Um what about Meadville is important to continue into the future?

R: indiscernible

Interviewer: Like what what should Meadville keep doing in the future to make it... to keep it good. 

R: Um... keep athletes that will grow up to be future stars. 

Interviewer: So you think, when you grow up you'd like to be a coach?

R: Um, yeah probably like a basketball coach or a football coach.

Interviewer: You think for Meadville? 

R: Uh, I don't really know, I think it's too early to say.

Interviewer: What do you want your children or grandchildren to experience here when they grow up?

R: Um pause indiscernible grandchildren. 

Interviewer: Alright um next question. What would you change to make Meadville even better, or if you could have one wish for Meadville what would it be?

R: Um... hmph pause. Could you say that again?

Interviewer: What would you change to make Meadville even better, or if you could have one wish for Meadville what would it be? So what's something you would do with Meadville to make it better?

R: Um, I guess help out in the indiscernible more. 

Interviewer: How would you do that?

R: Like, i could be like, cleaning up around Meadville.

Interviewer: So make it, look nicer?

R: Yeah, why not?

Interviewer: Would you get more people to pick up around Meadville and...

R: Yeah.

Interviewer: Okay, is that good?

applause 