Unknown=Interviewer

Unknown=Interviewee

Interviewer: So, for, there, there's a project going around, it's called My Meadville. And, what it is, is it's a survey system. So, what happens is that people go around and give people interviews such as this one. And then we ask you questions about the community of Meadville and what do you think could make it better and we try to figure out how to make it better. So, I will be recording this interview.

R: Alright. 

Interviewer:  Ok, so, what do you love about the city of Meadville?

R: Uh, ma- I like that the town is like safe, like I don't, like there's not a whole lot of crime going on. Like I can like go walk around and like not have to worry about anything, like nothing's bad's going to happen to me or anything else around me.  Uh, I like all the things you can do in a, in Meadville, like th-, like there's the movies, mov- movie theatre, uhm, there's like all the restaurants, like Eddie's, like Eddie's and uhp, that's, and uhm Ha- Hank's, and Casey's, just the whole, just all those left to do, Diamond Park. Lot, lot of stuff, and yeah.

Interviewer: So what matters to you most about it? About living in Meadville?

R: What matters? What matters to me most, uh, probably uh, the people, I'd say. I don't think the town would be the same without the people that live in Meadville. 

Interviewer: Uhm, uhm, It'd be a ghost-town anyways. Uhm, So what is, so how long have you lived in meadville?

R: My en- My entire life, I'd say.

Interviewer: So, what is your favorite memory of growing up in Meadville?

R: Fav- favorite memory? Man, that's a hard one. Probably uhm, like they tore, they took the playground down to like, you know what I mean, like down by Allegheny highland park. Is that what it is? Yeah. I put, I remember like as a little kid playing down there a lot. That was fun. 

Interviewer: So what brought you to Meadville?

R: Well, I was, well I am in a high school, so mainly my parents. Just living there generally. 

Interviewer: Not why are you here? What brought you here?

R: What brought me here? Well, well, kinda just my parents. My parents moved here and uh, yeah. Just never moved out. 

Interviewer: So, your parents brought here but why do you stay?

R: Why did I stay? Main- Mainly 'cause I just, well like my entire family, really I should say, just liked the town of Meadville in general really. 

Interviewer: But why do you like it?  Like, what makes you stay specifically?

R: Kinda probably going back to what I said before, about [unknown] like the people that live here, just like, just like the neighbors, people, the people in school, the students, teachers and stuff. 

Interviewer: So, it's just a friendly community.

R: Yeah, a friendly community. 

Interviewer: So, what would make staying here easier for you?

R: Make staying here easier?

Interviewer: Like it, it's a pretty small town. Life can be pretty boring, so what, what do you think can make this...

R: It is a pretty small town, I will g- I will agree with you with that and there are a lot of things to do. But like if, like if you could add more things to do. Like, I don't know, I don't know what you could add considering those already a good, pretty good amount of stuff but if you could add more, then maybe probably make it easier. 

Interviewer: So, like we said a little bit ago, uhm, it's fairly small uhm but small towns are often known for their culture and their history and such. So, you'll often find something like an old fort or something in a town that like basically defines the town. So what do you think captures the spirit of Meadville?

R: Captures the spirit of ....probably like uhm like the sports teams, like Meadville Bulldogs and like all, like all, like all the students come out to all the games and stuff just like really support the team and show a lot of spirit for, spirit for the team in general. Uhm Alleg- Allegheny College as well, like, like Allegheny College is in Meadville, and like having a college in Meadville, which isn't that very big of a town. You know probably brings attention to it as well. 

Interviewer: So, going back to the spirit, what would you miss in Meadville were it not here, like what would it not seem like Meadville anymore …if it were gone. 

R: I know I keep, I know I keep going back to this but like if the people weren't here probably wo- probably wouldn't be the same. Just like the people I've come to know growing up here like if they weren't here it just wouldn't feel like Meadville. And also some of the things that are around here, like the Diamond, th- the Diamond were- weren't here, Diamond Park it probably wouldn't feel like Meadville anymore if that wasn't there. 

Interviewer: So you keep coming back to the people. Would it be the same in any town, do you think? Like if there were a whole bunch of different buildings all switched out, if, if we moved to say, Cambridge, but the entire town moved to Cambridge, would you still feel the same?

R: Well, the surroundings are def, like I definitely have to like get used to the surroundings considering how used-to I am to obviously Meadville's, you know, entire community and the surroundings and buildings and stuff. But, if the peop- if the people were there I don't think it'd feel that much different, really. Because they wouldn't hav- because there wouldn't be a whole load of new people. If the people that lived in Cambridge were still there.

Interviewer: So you're saying the buildings don't matter much, just people.

R: I'm not saying they don't matter, I'm just say- 'cause like the buildings would matter. Like if you took out like, like the town hall for example, like it obviously that'd have an effect in it, but I'd s- but I'd say the people m- would probably make a di- make an impact, if like a lot of the people in the town just like, left for whatever reason. 

Interviewer: So what do you think about Meadville is important for Meadville to continue to prosper in the future?

R: Impor- what I would probably say that would be important for it to continue into the future, and like what I said at the beginning, like this town, like the low crime rate. Like I feel like the, eh if the crime were to go up like we should try to prevent that and like try to keep a whole load of crimes and bad things out of the, out of the town. 

Interviewer: So, what do you think, what do you want your children and/or grandchildren to experience here, if they grown up here?

R: Probably the same things that I have experienced, like being ab- like being able to like go to a, go to school and do what, and like do all the extra-curriculars that uhm the school has to offer and all, and just everything in the town that you can do. 

Interviewer: But what specifically? Not- 'Cause you can go to school, and there are extra curricular activities everywhere that you're going to go. 

R: Right. Well, Ext- extra-curricular activities, like I was n- I was never huge on sports like I played basketball for a little bit but like maybe, but like if they can do, they can do sports like and they can do whatever sport they're interested in like baseball, basketball, whatever, volleyball whatever other sport or they can do any extra-curricular activities like like ah, key club or uhm, playing, learning an instrument, playing an instrument in band or singing in choir, chorus. 

Interviewer: But what makes it special about being in Meadville? Why wouldn't you want them to go somewhere else?

R: ...pause... [indecipherable]  Because I feel like umh, Mead- Meadville like everything, like everywhere like everywhere you go you can learn, can learn something differently and do something differently. And I feel like the way Meadville does like teaches athletics and music and any other extra-curriculars like clubs and other things like that does it in a pretty good way, that people'd be able to.

Interviewer: Wh' What makes Meadville's style different? What is, Why is Meadville unique?

R: I don't, I don't really know how to, how to like explain it. Because it, 'cause it is different. Because I just know it is different, but like I don't have like enough, like I do know some but I don't have a whole load of knowledge about like how the other like schools work, like how Conneaut or Cambridge, as you said, like how they function to like actually like put it into words. 

Interviewer: So you just want your children to feel the connectedness and the teamwork of

R: Right

Interviewer: Of sports and curricular activities. So, if you could change anything in Meadville, what would it be? If you were trying to make it better, draw more people, make it a bigger town, make it more fun, whatever, what would you do?

R: If I could change something? Maybe, like, probably, like uhm, the downtown mall could probably be, uhm, probably be uh, renovated, because like, because like if you've been there it's kind of like not a whole lot of stuff going on there. And also the uhm, the uh, plaza could be renovated as well. Bec- Because I've I haven't been to a whole load of the stores, stores down there, like 75% of them I haven't been in, probably will have no interest of going into. 

Interviewer: Alright, sounds good. Thank you for your time, I'll just have you fill out this demographic sheet.