Brenda Hawkins

SMM _ Summer 16

WF55, WM60, WF24(caregiver)

R: Head Start at Forest Green has lost its grant - we need it back.  Now its just going to be a regular day care. You know with Headstart, kids start when they're 3 and its so important.  

And especially for us, because we're blind, we could just walk our kids down there - I mean they started it when our son was three, we took Joey there and he was the first class.  So that's something we'd like to see stay. 

We wrote letters and tried real hard to keep it, but they've already made the decision - they were a keystone program - you know a 5 star program, the very best, and I've had my kids in other daycares and it doesn't compare. 

Its fundamentally a great program. 

Well, they have one downtown, but then you have to transport your kids to it - it was so great to have it right here.  Um different, I think they have them in most of the housing development places - Headstart and I don't know if they all lost it or just Forest Green?

R: Yeah - well, I used to live here, so I took my kids down there - and then I moved out to Gill Village, you know another project - and they don't have Headstart, its just a daycare.  That's why I didn't consider taking my kids there.  I would have had to take my youngest out there and my oldest out here - which worked because I work out here 6 days a week - but now the headstart's gone - and I guess we'll make it work because now my oldest is going to go to kindergarten - and that couldn't be protected and we wish we could. 

And they have one downtown, but its kind of a pain for parents to get their kids there when they counted on having one up here. 

Well, Brenda, I don't know what's happening because they're saying that Venango and Crawford county both lost most of their headstart funding - Headstart all together, I don't really know what's going to happen.  It sucks. 

R: We thought at one time, we would like to see a Sam's Club here, but we have  Walmart and we don't need both. 

Well I'd rather have a Sam's Club because we have that membership and you can get bigger stuff cheaper - so yeah, I'd like to see a Sam's Club here in Meadville - instead of all these restaurants that they put in and you know these other things that don't stay and stuff like that.  

Such as

Like all the fast food places, there's always a new one all the time, and if they would just you know, some of that property that's not being used anymore and is just wasted...

Yeah the downtown mall.

The downtown mall - there's tons of space and they could make part of that into Sam's Club or find their own property, but 

Maybe since Sam's Club is so big it wouldn't really fit in the downtown mall.

R: Yeah, but a Sam's Club is important to us, because we can't get to Erie much because we're blind - and therefore we can't get the bulk stuff cheap and that sucks. And that's probably true of all the blind clients that were at that party that day - they would like to be able to buy things, I mean we all live on limited income, so being able to get a lot for less is important. 

R: Some of the services in this county are the best as far as handicapped people go - um the Keystone Blind Association in this county is one of the best anywhere as far as I'm concerned.

One of the best in the state for sure.

R: Yeah, we used to live in Greensburgh - West Moreland County and um, when we lived down there for a year. The Blind Association up here will take us shopping, to the doctor, to the drug store, and they will take my kids to the doctor, because after all, we were the one's responsible for getting those kids to the doctor. Down in the Greensburgh area, the blind association wouldn't take us and our blind dog or our kids anywhere - and we had a baby that needed immunizations.  So that's what I'm saying, the blind association here is awesome. And Greensburgh is in a bigger county and it was the county seat, and it wasn't good there.  But the services up here are some of the best that I've seen and I don't know if its because we have so much more snow up here and they cover it - I don't know why its better here than other places, but it is.  And we've been clients of the blind association for 30 years, I became a client when our oldest son Greg was - while I was pregnant with him and he'll be 30 in a month.  

And um, CATA is pretty good with the busses - you know they're pretty good in this town. 

Is there anything about CATA that would be more convenient for you?

R: Yeah - well one of the things is - one time my son took us out to Walmart and he couldn't stay, so we said we'd get the bus home, which as soon as they seen us standing there with the wheel chair, they put the ramp down so that I could push him up, but they wouldn't assist me with it and I'm legally blind and so I go crooked - and pushing it up - if I don't line it up on the ramp right, then somebody's gonna fall and get hurt. 

Right

R: And so I got it up okay, but coming down was a different story - and they told me that they couldn't push him up or help get him up in the ramp - well then we get to Forest Green and its too close to the edge of the grass or whatever, and the ramp stuck and chair stuck and I couldn't get him off. And she said that she couldn't help - and I said well, then you're going to be sitting here all day because you can't put the ramp up and I can't get him off.  So they, the drivers, need to - they need to have the drivers assist with people in wheel chairs. 

Well, they hooked me in alright. 

Oh no, they'll belt you in because - I don't know but maybe its not safe for me to do it, but as far as up and down the ramp - I have to do it, and I can, but I don't line it up exactly right, and if he goes off the edge, he's out of that chair. Or I'm going to fall and break my leg - and then CATA should be responsible for that.  She did end up helping me when we were stuck at Forest Green because if she didn't she was going to be stuck here all day, you know, but they weren't going to help me otherwise. 

And he won't go on the bus with me because that happened - so we're stuck here if Stephanie's gone - I can't leave - because I'm the caregiver when she's gone, because she's the caregiver and if she isn't here then I can't leave because he won't go on the bus.  And we used to always go on the bus - and if he'd help me get him off and on, then we'd go and we wouldn't sit here 24/7. 

R: Greg had a stroke 9 years ago and now uses the wheelchair, before that he was just blind and he had a guide dog and we would go everywhere, but because of the wheelchair, it really became an issue - so that's something that I'd like to see changed with CATA - that they assist with getting them on and off the bus. 

Well, you know I've seen elderly women with walkers, and some don't hesitate to help. 

R: Well, maybe it depends on the driver, but that driver was nasty to me that day.  And I bet if we went to CATA, because KBA has had CATA come talk to us before and we've talked to them, because at one time they quit having the bus go through Forest Green, and there was 4 blind clients that lived here at the time, and so um and he was in the chair - and they were having us wait at the bottom of the hill across the road.

There's no sidewalk there. 

Yeah, its a 5

R: Yeah its a steep hill and no sidewalk. And we used to have to go down the hill and cross the street and wait there for the bus- and I told CATA, when my husband or I get hit by a bus, there will be a law suit - it needs to come in, at least to the daycare if not all the way up, you know where there is a sidewalk and there is a place for us to sit and a way that I can put him on the bus.  

Yeah - I remember them saying that in the winter, they weren't going to come up through

Yeah, because they hit a rock, and the driver was going to fast and hit a rock up at the top of the hill - and it was the driver's fault of the bus, and it was nothing to do with Forest Green - but it is narrow and difficult for two cars to pass there - but they do come up through now, and now we just have to go out to the end of our driveway, where it says office and they park across the street - but again there's no sidewalk and that's also where we got stuck - where the grass was with the ramp, because the ramp got stuck with the wheelchair because I couldn't push his wheelchair off the ramp to get into the grass because it was catching on the end of the ramp, and I didn't have enough strength - because I have COPD too and I didn't have the strength to push him over there in the grass. 

But we did get off, and then we had a heck of a time with the bank

Well, after she went by I was able to push you off the bank, but you know it was a real issue that day and he hasn't gone on the bus with me since because of it. And I don't blame him, because he was really worked up over it, having to be stuff - you know.

They had to push me backwards off the bus -

Yeah we had to push him back on the ramp and on the bus turn him around and then push him backwards to get him off that ramp - and yeah it was a pain. 

but other than that there are a lot of things that are accessible to us.

Is there something that makes you feel connected to Meadville and makes this place feel like home that you appreciate?

R: Well, the bus - and stuff - again when we moved to Greensburgh, there was a bus that came once a day, but it didn't give us enough time to get anything done or really go anywhere - so we were stuck at home

As far as that goes, I'd like to see one bus run on Sunday

Yeah, because there's no bus that runs on Sunday, even to like go to Church or nothing.

Yeah, I noticed I see like, you know Sundays when I'm driving up the hill to Walmart I see all these people in their uniforms walking - who must normally take a bus, but since they don't run on Sunday they have to walk.  Yeah like you said, even just one

R: Yeah do it like the night route so that at least people can get where they need to be - instead there's just nothing.  Now holidays are the same way - but everybody deserves a holiday. you know, so - well, it used to be worse, because it used to just be us, and the blind association isn't open on Saturdays or Sundays, and they used to not run on Fridays because a few years ago when gas was so high it went to a four day week and stayed that way. And so, on like Sundays we don't have anything - and when my kids were small we didn't have anyone to take us anywhere.  And now my sons drive - well the one lives in Maryland, but the other one lives close, and so Joe takes us pretty much where - you know if I can't get a ride.  But its better for us - there are other blind clients that don't have no-one. 

Yeah and getting out of Meadville - maybe once a week to Sagertown, Edinboro 

I think they have Saegertown every day now. They have some every day cause there's extra buses down there. 

They only have one once a week that goes to Edinboro and one once a week that goes to Conneaut Lake

And there's one that goes to Cambridge, but there's not a lot - so if you're in Meadville, you're pretty much stuck in Meadville. 

There is a lot of things here in Meadville - that's why we live here, even though I hate snow - there is a lot more that's accessible in this town that it is anywhere I've ever seen.

Its the best of both of worlds - its for the most part accessible and its small enough to be a cute little town. 

Yeah, we love Meadville, we've lived here for 30 years.  Before that, we were going to college in Edinboro, but when I was pregnant with our oldest son Greg we moved to Meadville.  He ran away though (laughter) - no he don't like Meadville, but he likes the bigger cities and more money -and you know, okay whatever, just bring the kids back when you want to 

Our youngest, he wants to stay local

Yeah, Joe, he wants to stay, he loves Meadville and he has ties to the community and Greg - our older one was a helion and he got into all sorts of trouble when he was here and he can't live his past down, so he ran away. (laughter)  I mean he didn't break laws or get in trouble that way. 

He came just short of it 

Just short of it yeah. yes, then he didn't want to stay here with us and follow our rules, so he joined the army, and I'm like okay honey

Yeah like there's not rules in the army

I guess he had to learn that one the hard way - yeah - you think my rules are so hard - go be in the army honey - you'll grow up.  And he's pretty much made a career of it, he's been in 12 years and he still is, and he works at Fort Dietrich right now - he wants to finish his career, he only needs 8 more years to finish. 

So in terms of Joe, he's staying local

mmhmm

Is there anything that we don't have that you would want his kids to experience as they grow up here? 

R: Um, the rec complex is good, but its so - I mean if you're on limited income - I mean its a good place to go, but its so expensive. And on Saturdays - I mean the bus used to not even go out there when the kids were little, the bus didn't go out to the rec complex, it went close, and if the kids could see - you know if they knew the direction how to walk, we would walk it with them to take them swimming.  They knew a path to cut through and we would do that.

You know its like 6 or 7 bucks and if you have 3 or 4 kids then its really expensive

Its almost inaccessible

Right - and you can't bring your own food or drinks in there, so you've got to pay for that there too

Right so you can't go take a picnic and go to the Rec. 

Brenda, I didn't tell you think, but I went up to Erie yesterday and there was um, there was a fountain there and it had like lights and there was music playing and it was like a water show - and you know my kids loved it but the fountain was big, with different lights and different heights, and you know it was kind of like our Diamond Park and on the outside of it there were little spouts spraying water toward the fountain and my kids played in it.  My oldest - she's five - was like that was the best water park ever (laughing) and it was just a fountain you know.  There was no fence around it so you're allowed to go in it - and it was like 7 at night and my kids could play.

It was designed for a community to interact with it. 

Yeah - and you know 

R: And again the Y is expensive - anywhere with a pool is expensive

I remember, the Y used to be 75cents

Yeah its so expensive - and then if you have just 2 or 3 people its gonna cost you a fortune, and if you're living on a fixed income, you don't have it. 

You know a program like that for kids would be good - keep kids out of trouble.  I used to love Fun for Kids - it used to be over where Dalkemper's used to be. 

What was it? 

R: It was called Fun for Kids - and it was slides and balls and you could go in and play and there were tunnels to climb in - and you paid for the kid to go in, but the parents got in free and we used to take Greg - it was gone before Joey was born - my kids are 10 years apart so - um anyways, but we used to take Greg to it and we'd go probably once a week.  It wasn't too expensive since you only had to pay for the kid. 

Remember what happened to caddie that time? 

Oh yeah, his guide dog - oh my goodness it was hilarious - Greg told me to keep the dog with me because he was going to go down the slide with Greg and the dog had a cow - oh no, it was like a mountain thing that were going to climb - it wasn't real tall, but the dog saw it as a danger and he jumped up and scratched my face - and ran away and got over to them at the wall. 

He wanted to protect

Oh yeah, he thought it was a danger to him. 

Remember when I went to that Kindergarten readiness program with Amadea - when they were talking about a truck that's a mobile playground - Come Play - you know, whenever you see us parked somewhere, stop and come play - I've never been to one - they just told us about it you know what I mean - you know I do think I did see it you know down

Here in town

Yeah, you know where they used to have melons and a fish taco place - Oh where John Ensworth was - yeah, and we didn't stop, but I thought it was a really cool idea - you know its like a mobile playground and it was cool 

So it is big? 

Its like the size of a small Uhaul, you know like uh, half the size of your living room - so I don't really know what's inside of it. 

That would be a good thing for the downtown mall

Yeah

Right, the unutilized space

Yeah - there's always something there but -its nice that its locally owned shops, but its nothing great

And its nothing that stays - I was surprised that Eddie's is still there - but its Eddie's - I think it will probably be there until the end of the mall

I love that you can now get Eddie's in the winter - that's the big win

I know that is so cool - I wish that they took debit cards because I don't always carry cash, but I always have my debit card - you know, but yeah, there's just so much wasted space in that mall that they need to do something...You know there needs to be something for the teenagers to do - so they find trouble because there isn't nothing to do, you know I mean some places in bigger cities have like where you can do the air soft gun stuff - those kinds of things - I don't know, some of that unused stuff could be used for kids, you know keep em out of - you know so kids have fun things to do that they you know won't get in trouble.

I don't know - you know you think about Erie and they have all that stuff but they still have kids getting into all that trouble - yeah

But there isn't a lot for kids to do in Meadville, there really isn't 

Yeah, thinking about what I used to do...I used to go stand in front of Country Fair, you know, even back then there was nothing to do

Well, you know Joe used to go walking in the woods even in the winter, but that was Joe, but most kids don't want that and will find some kind of trouble

Yeah - that's what I did, found trouble...

Greg did too, our older one, he found trouble, he'd go get himself into you know cause a commotion

And that's why I don't want to be here because it may not be best to raise my kids here, you know. 

It's nice ...

For old people (laughing)

For old people yeah, but I meant its nice for kids to see a variety of things, you know options like a school of arts or something, but here we are in this little place - I've lived here all my life though and I'm 25, so I think it would do them good to see other things..

And my grandkids probably won't be here all that much because they live in Maryland - now Joe and Jackie if they get married, they would raise their kids here, so yeah I would like to see some of those things here so the kids didn't get into trouble

Yeah, all we really have is the rec complex 

or the Y

Yeah and its so expensive and they don't have much hours for the pool and stuff

Yeah, but who wants to swim every day or even 3 days a week. 

Well, they have the library, but the kids have to like to read, but Joe hated to read

Well yeah - if you're not a nerd, by the time you're early teens you don't want to read books, you want to get out and do active things, you know. 

There's not a whole lot of sports things either, there is for the really good ones with the Bulldogs, but otherwise there's not a lot of things kids can do.  That's my big thing, I'd like to see come here - so kids could do things. 

Well, Joe, first year Pastor took him hunting, he got a ten point buck.

Yeah, and the Church played a big role in our - in Joe's life - he went to Calvary Baptist, and he got a scholarship and they paid for everything but his books.  He got to go to Calvary Baptist, and Pastor Meswell used to take him to hunt - so he loves hunting and to fish and stuff like that. 

That's a great idea - find ways to make the outdoors more accessible to youth. 

Yeah, they have a lot of nice trails, you know the Ernst Trail, and through 5th ward there's some trails, you know even man made

R: Yeah there are trails, and you know we used to take Greg fishing down at the crick, right down there. I remember the first time he went fishing, he caught like 8 fish and he calls my mother when we get home, and he says ' ma, ma, guess what, I caught eight fish and at least we won't starve, because I can catch fish for my mom and dad'  and like, oh my God, like why would he tell you that (laughing) he was a scream. 

And the guide dog got away one day and went down to the crick and we didn't know where he was at and I was out with Kathy my friend who worked at KBA for a long time - but anyways, she and I were together and somebody calls her cell phone and tells her - the Hawkins' house, your with Brenda Hawkins right, and she said yeah - well they got a 911 call from the Hawkins' house and the little boy said that his dad's eyes are missing (because we taught him that the guide dog is his dad's eyes) so he called 911 and tells them that his dad's eyes are missing (laughing) - oh my god it was hilarious.  I was like are you serious - and Kathy said, Brenda you got to tell him not - and I was like, he didn't know, he couldn't find the guide god, so he was gonna get help for dad.  You know that's the kind of stuff that he got in trouble for, that he didn't try to get in trouble for but he found trouble (laughing).  He was about 4 - my dad's eyes!  And then he called em back and said we found em!  (laughing) Oh it was hilarious, me and Kathy were rolling

Have you interviewed Karen yet? 

No, Karen didn't make an appointment

She's another client of KBA

She was sitting beside us at the picnic

Yeah, the Public library is really nice though for my kids - they have a puppet show, and we just went to a petting zoo there - um, they had one the day before yesterday. Its just nice, they have the puppet shows and story time, and they have, like uh, its called tails that wag, where the kids read to the dog

Oh my

They've gotta be, maybe not like service dogs, but they're like totally obedient trained.  Fayette, she couldn't read yet, she's five, but she knew the story from hearing it over and over again - so she has the book and she's telling the dog - they don't really like the parents to be in there because its distracting so I'm watching through the - around the corner - and she's telling her story to this dog and the dog's just totally looking at her like its really into the story - it was awesome yeah.  

Yeah, they have a lot of - they even have talking stuff - you know the books you can get on dvd or things like that you can read if you can't see. 

I liked the library as a kid, they have a lot of books, and we didn't get too crazy with it, but they even have a display case where the kids get to show off their collector items and stuff. What else do I remember?  well then I started being a teenager and I'd go there to use the internet and look up I don't know probably song lyrics, or whatever you're interested in. Yeah, I went to the library as a kid, and its still nice for my family, but I don't take them there as much as i'd like to but yeah. 

I was thinking about your story about um - my dad's eyes are missing - 

mmhmm

And uh - you were with someone who got a phone call from someone else who knew that she was with you?  That's the kind of thing that I like about Meadville, the connection - you hear one thing about who you know, and you reach out to people

Well they might not have known that she was with me, but they knew that she knew us and that she would have headed over to make sure we were okay - she was like a second mom to that brat....(laughing)  Kathy started cackling and I was like - oh what are you laughing at and she told me and I was like - oh we better get home before they get into trouble.  

i was there at home. 

I don't like that as much, I've been here for 25 years, but the way everyone knows...

It was good for us because my kids used to get in trouble and someone that would hear that my kid was in trouble they would call me and say - Greg Allen's blah - or hey did you know Joe's doing this - well, no

I guess that's why they say that it takes a village to raise a kid - and now people have this thing that goes against that - like you can't talk to my kid - or you're not my child's parent - you know, that's what I've seen. 

Yup its changed - its changed over the years

You know um, I mean to me - if someone sees my kids in the wrong, yeah say something to them, but people sometimes take things too far - and I guess my daughter she's 5, so its not like she's able to do too much wrong, but uh I don't know, my grandmother, she's 80 and she's lived in 5th ward, she's 89 years old and she's lived in 5th ward for 89 years. 

Where does she live? you know what I mean

She lives um, the corner of - it used to be a gas station on the corner there

Oh yeah

Right on the corner of Lincoln ave and Race Street, yeah right before the bridge. 

Yeah, we lived there a few years until  I got pregnant with Joey and then we had to move because our trailer needed a new roof and it was gonna cost $6000. 

Yeah, there used to be a gas station there that my grandfather - he owned that , but yeah, she's lived in that house probably 40 years - and lived in that neighborhood for 89 years. 

Every time I call her or there's company or anything, her yippy dogs just bark and bark

Yeah all those little dogs are yippers. 

He won't be quiet  - I mean he's barking at the air you know. 

So is it close to where the laundromat is over there? 

Yeah, there's the laundromat, there's a couple houses, there's the intersection there and she lives right on the corner. 

We used to walk to that ice cream place and eat - Palmeros? Pamm..... 

When I was pregnant with Greg - and I used to tell him - you know in June and July, well I was due in September, but it was so hot in that trailer and I didn't have air conditioning or anything and it was so flippin hot and I tell him - if you don't go get me a chef salad, then I ain't eatin today - and he would go, cause he could go with the dog, and he would walk over and get me a chef salad from there. 

Yeah, that's when I was little, we would go over for ice cream 

And they always knew what I wanted - that's what they would say to him - hey do you want your chef salad for your pregnant wife today.

Yeah, they always knew what I wanted too. 

But anyways - we're loud, we've been married 35 years.  But yeah, he would go almost every day to get me a salad, it was just too hot to cook in our place. 

Well, I think all in all this is not really a bad town. 

No, its not

No, its not a bad town.

We like Meadville, if it just didn't snow - I mean if it could stay like this year round, like 78 degrees or something like that, yeah, like 70 to 80 all year round.

70 to 90.

No, 90s too hot. 

And no humidity. 

Arizona - come to Meadville Pennsylvania - right - 

West Texas, Arizona, New Mexico - 

But I don't want to move. 

Well, I do, but I live in Gill Village - you know all low income, and there's so much drugs - just drugs, that's all I see, and my kids I don't even want em to come out

Yeah, you're scared for your kids to go out the house because you don't want em to get seen - that's what I'm saying, there's nothing for kids in this town - nothin.

Well, I look out my window - I've lived there about a year. 

Now we don't have to worry about that because we're done raising kids and now Meadville's a beautiful place to us, you know, now - I didn't like it when my kids were little because they could find so much trouble - especially after that play place. 

But yeah - there was stuff, but it was gone before Joey was even thought of - yeah, when there was stuff like that - I think it was over in the Plaza somewhere - I forget where it was at - but it was somewhere that you could get on the bus/off the bus and walk in. We took Greg Allen one time, and then we would take him at least once a week and he would have something to run around get rid of his energy and we would sit and have a pop or whatever. And we'd sit there and he would play for hours and then we'd go home, and he had got rid of his energy - cause he was hyper - and if he gets rid of his energy then he can't get in so much trouble. 

Well, I never heard of that before, but I've heard there used to be other things that were good, but then they got bad before they closed. Like the pool hall - down there you know it was - when I was 14/15 it was around, and I was the most conservative out of the group of girls that I hung around with, so I would just sit and watch, but it was cool, they would play pool, and they had ping pong and stuff - but then by the end of that 

It turned into a druggy place

Yeah - my mom would say - I better not hear about you going up there, you know. The same thing that they had dances at the Eagles club - for the kids, and we would go there and there was music and it was nice, but they started letting us smoke cigarettes - and we're all underage, you know 14/15 years old, and people are bringing it, so we're all smoking cigarettes in there you know what I mean.  That was another place that then my mom was like - nuhuh - don't go there. I don't know, they don't really have anything - any dance like - maybe in Conneaut Lake uh, they might do a under 21 dance thing

They used to have a place called Razzy's - long time ago.  That was when we first moved here - and Greg's stepsisters were in their teens, and they would go to Razzy's and there was dances and stuff - I don't even know where that was, but it was somewhere in town and Greg's mom would drive them, but

Yeah, I think the Rec Complex is awesome - if they added more...maybe a dance floor, maybe a roller skating rink, maybe uh...

And some kind of a low income pass - you something that wasn't like, I mean they do have passes, but they're expensive, and you know like a low income pass - some kind of a pass that you could get based on your income - 

That would be doable at maybe 50 bucks a year

Because they do have skating there in the winter, but again, we couldn't afford it.

I would like to see a roller skating rink here.

Me too. 

Yeah, there's no roller skating, its like ice skating, but um then they did - where was that, maybe Conneaut Lake where they did that roller rink outside cause a friend of ours' kid used to go there.

Was it Papa Wheelie's? or uh somewhere - I went to a couple of places growing up - is there somewhere around here called Mars? Like  a little town.

Yes, its half-way, its almost down 79, where you get on the turnpike to go over toward my mom and dad's house. 

Well, I had a couple I think two years in a row I had roller skate parties there and it was fun - yeah roller skating would be cool. 

Yeah, but again that's far away, that's not Meadville, that's another county - almost halfway between here and Pittsburgh. 

There's one in Hermitage - about 45 minutes away 

Yeah, like everything else, you either got to go to Erie or Hermitage, but there's not a whole lot here in town. 

We like Splash Lagoon - but between my boyfriend and I we have 4 kids and it was going to be almost $200 bucks for an hour playing laser tag - and we were like - nope, not doing that, sorry kids - we're going to - I mean we try to make adventures - we do that often, like we go to Shadybrook park and go to the echo chamber (I don't know what the purpose of it is, but you got to check it out - I mean it has graffiti everywhere - I mean I used to go there - well you walk up it and it echos, but there's some art work). You know my sister is 13 years older than me and I used to go there with her and there would be like spray paint and like nirvana, and all kids of just bands and ying yang signs and stuff as a kid I thought was cool - and I go there now and I still recognize some of the art - its largely covered now- but its just like a big steep thing - so you want to walk up it and we would sit on the edge and just yell to hear the echo - it was cool though you know.  I guess my youngest Brielle hasn't seen it yet - she's one and a half, but she wants to do everything and I think she would like it. 

So do you live here - 

Yeah - I live over on Glenwood

Do you know where Shadybrook park is? 

Yeah, 

You should check it out. 

Yeah, well we are gonna get going but thank you very much. 