KL004

Kathy Lee

Sandra Eels

January 19, 2017

I: What do you love about the city of Meadville? 

R: Well, I think the transit system is excellent.  Now that I'm a senior I have a free bus pass for the city bus and share a ride, the city bus is $2 one way and I haven't driven a car in eleven years - and I live at Parkside Commons and that's a really good location for walking wherever I need to go. Um, Its been my experience that they have been very reliable and also I really appreciate CHAPS and the Journey Center because they have help make a quantum leap in my recovery of my mental illness - with peer consult - before I came here my mental illness was very personal and after I came here and found all the like minded people that I could relate to and they could understand the irrationality of mental illness, which is really hard to convey to family and loved ones. And then CHAPS hosted a series of presentations on things last summer and I could go - like Women's Services, and other mental health agencies - and I think - and I was talking to someone in California and I told him about the transit system and he said that's really unusual to have such a good system in a rural area. And I've been told by my mental health services that Meadville has the best services of a lot of places - in fact my sister says she has to go 100 miles to find a Clubhouse program - and also um I lived at Quality Living Center for a year and a half and when I needed their services they were excellent - very supportive and they would provide transportation  so that I could come into town and go to the dialectical therapy behavioral class - which lasted several months.  So I think education-wise, Meadville has a lot of informed citizens about multiple issues and I appreciate that sharing of communications and socialization. 

I:  Do you have a favorite memory of living here? 

R: Well, two of my classmates from second grade on live in Meadville and we still get together, and we've been best friends for over 60 years.

I: Isn't that wonderful...ah that's fantastic - and you still get to see each other? 

R: At least once a week

I: That's great. What matters to you the most about living here? 

R: Mostly my mental health services

I: So if I ask what brought you to Meadville...

R: um, my therapist gave me an application for parkside commons when she felt that I could undertake independent living

I: What do you think captures the spirit of the town? 

R: um, Second Saturday.

I: mmm can you tell me more about that?

R:  Well, that's a bunch of vendors at the Market House, but they also have entertainment and activities for children on the second saturday of each month - on the other saturdays it's vendors for produce, but the Second Saturday it's more comprehensive of the community. I think it's like from 8 to 2. And then they have Meadville Fridays on the first Friday of the month. 

I: And what do they do on Meadville Friday?

R: I don't know I don't go, but a friend told me she likes to go to it, I think there's food and vendors. 

I: What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't here anymore? 

R: the Journey Center, because they are certified by Clubhouse and which means that we are part of an international network and we gain impressions and strength and weaknesses from all over the US - we don't get much international contact - in fact the Journey Center is the only reason that I'm not living in southern California now. 

I: Well that's a trade off - I don't know. What do you think in Meadville is important to continue into the future?

R: I would say Second Saturdays, and I can't remember the title, but when they were having that series of presentations last summer.  But I think just the College students and their apathy for the community, and they do these presentations where they promote these presentations - there was one about violence, and a friend you should call somebody. 

I: What would you change in Meadville to make it even better? 

R: um - Snow. (laughing) 

I: So I'm guessing that's decrease the snow

R: yeah

I: What else would you change? 

R: Well, I think that um, more - theyre doing stuff for community awareness, but I would say more community awareness and to continue raising that - like Diamond park has music in the summer times, free concerts - and I would say that Another prominent agency in Meadville is the senior center - Active Aging - they are very purposeful and they have a lot of outreach and taxes - and the Library does taxes too. And I'm only about two blocks from the library so its easy access. 

I: That's a nice program isn't it? 

R: yeah

I: If you could have one wish for Meadville what would it be? 

R: For the old timers here to have an appreciation of what Meadville really offers - the people who 09:41 have lived here all their lives have no comparison so I guess that's why they complain, but I graduated nursing school in NY state, moved to southern CA in 69 to 88 and worked in OH, NY, CA, PA in nursing and I have a strong geographical base for my opinions and my attitudes, but I think that Meadville is an exceptional community. 

I: And you feel like maybe some of the older people don't have that appreciation? 

R: right

I: Anything else you'd like to tell me about Meadville

R: Well, I'm sure there is presentations and seminars that they have - very extensive outreach to the community

I; Are you talking about CHAPS? 

R: No, like all the College students and Active Aging and Journey Center. 

I: Thank you very much