Connection Number 003

Unknown: Got it going?

Unknown 2: Yes?

Unknown 3: Should be, should be good.

Interviewer: Okay, and as I told you, we are just interviewing people in our community. And we want to find out what they love about Meadville. And I have some questions, and one of em is what do you love about the city of Meadville?

R: The... uh... hm, that boy, that's a, that's a long one. It's a lot of things I like about it like the, the quietness the small town, knowing every fifth person as opposed to every second person, uh, or maybe every fourth person we know. I like that the can do, you you know everybody the business you know, tr, trust. When I mail my bills, I walk em, I walk my bills. I go acrosstreet, then the water bill. I go down the street and pay a bill, I mean I just, I like the local, the smallness of it.

Interviewer: Okay. Um, clears throat 

R: Is that the answer you're lookin' for?

Interviewer: I am. 

R: Yeah okay.

Interviewer: That is good, perfect. What things capture the spirit of your town you almost kinda answered that in the first one but can you think of any others?

R: Well I I, I still go to uh, a local sporting events, you know, uh on the high school level, uh because you know uh, it's exciting and uh... I, you know I follow or... I'm happy when a new business comes into town, I'm very excited, I feel terrible when one leaves, I'm all for progress downtown progress, community progress. For anything you know a new bridge this that I get excited uh... I'm uh, I'm a Meadville man. pause Do you want to go more?

Interviewer: If you want too.

R: Um... I I the people that come into my business, I know them on a personal basis. Um, you watch them, with their problems as well as mine, you know their horses, marriages, failures, children, this and that. It's just a quaint little community. Uh... I moved away before but, I always like to come back to Meadville. 

Interviewer: K, what would you miss if Meadville wasn't here?

R: Oh...My friends, I mean my acquaintances that lets mumbling let's put parentheses next to them, acquaintances. Not so much my friends, but my acquaintances. pause The smallness of it the... comradery you know the...

Interviewer: Now are we talking about just the downtown, or

R: No we're talking about everything  

Interviewer: are we talking about all of Meadville

R: I mean I, when I, I'm still active referee

Interviewer: Are you.

R: Yes, I referee basketball and softball and I go to the surrounding little cities like Franklin, Oil City, Warren. We still have contacts we know each other we remember us from going to school together. Playing against each other, same people that take tickets same people that coach you know you get to know them after the years and it's not on a real real personal level but you your acquainted with these people you know and your, like I don't I might go to Oil City or Franklin or Greenville and it's like, I know a lot of the people there you know. So I, I like that. Not real real close but close enough to I I know... mumbling Gary indiscernible he's a businessman down town you know we, we only, I know his business backwards and forwards, he know ours you know we just, suggestions to each other. I like this smallness... team, team.

Interviewer: Kay, and that is exactly why you probably stay in Meadville.

R: Yeah I I think you know like I say ah... It's I long I sometimes long for a city atmosphere, but once I'm in a city for a while I just, it's it's different. I'll ever forget when I went to Miami I lived in Miami for a while and I walked down the streets and I'd say hello to people and found myself, I finally said I found because everybody's looking at their shoes and it's just that you don't do that. I would say hi! Hello, how are you, how are you yeah, just don't do that just kinda... you know what I mean just kinda walk on by.

Interviewer: Okay, got mine laughs.

R: Well I, you know what I'm say they're not, they don't wanna be that quaint. They wanna be, you know...And i used to give my bus up on the seat all or, I used to give my seat up on the bus all the time, when I, when I would uh you know... Crazy stuff. Go ahead.

Interviewer: Okay. Uh, let's see, I kinda flipped around here but that's alright, Pete says it's okay I can do it. what would you change to make Meadville even better?

R: I I mean, specifically?

Interviewer: Mm hm.

R: You mean downtown Meadville or...

Interviewer: Mmm, well I'm interviewing the downtown people so if you wanna work with them...

R: I'm not crazy about parking, I'm not crazy about parking tickets, think they're too high, ten bucks is too high. Uh... pause. What I wanna change. You know I'm not up for a lot of change, i would hope that they would improve the, tops of the buildings meaning the second floors, I've seen some development in second floor whatever.

Interviewer: Mm hm.

R: It's just like if you go downtown you don't just see first floor, first floor, we're second floor up here, second and third floor, so there's like, when you go downtown to these businesses, the next level up is empty, yeah, you know it be nice too have some action.

Interviewer: You know several years ago I was on a downtown revitalization, and we looked at that second floor, in all of the buildings along here, and great space! You know!

R: Must be.

Interviewer: It is!

Unknown: It's gotta be reasonable no? Renovate some of it? 

Interviewer: Oh yeah.

R: it's just the fact that it probably hasn't been takin' care of for so many years like, you can almost see who does something with there second floor who doesn't. And it's got a lot of potential. 

Interviewer: Me I, I think a lot of it too uh, when i was working on that it was there were a lot of absentee landlords...

R: Sure.

Interviewer: That owned those buildings and and when I say absentee, I mean.. we're talking California. 

R: It's gotten better.

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: It's gotten better. I mean there's some go getter's downtown there like Bill, and Grasinger next there are, somebody's got you real real good you know, developing ideas like, he took over the old post office you know. Interviewer: Yeah.

R: he mad that uh, prosper. Um...

Interviewer: I also think the Zaire, it went into the Marketeurs building It was kinda, make a, make a, very well should.

R: Zaire.

Interviewer: Yeah. 

R: The Marketeurs building where's that at?

Interviewer: Oh that's where the second hand child... and the 

R: Oh okay! 

Interviewer: yeah.

R: Where they, they said the self defense, self defense place downstairs?

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: Okay that's a beautiful building. 

Interviewer: Oh yeah. And and, I thought it was big until I walked these halls laughs.

R: Oh I, you wouldn't believe it when I shared indiscernible at the inn how big this is, this is a big building.

Interviewer: Mm hm.

R: It's got 11,000 square feet.

Interviewer: Well thank you for saving it.

R: Well, we spent a lot of work, and I... you can't even imagine what we we've been... Air conditioning, new lights, new track, clean lot, T mean there just, developing floors, sanding walls. 

Interviewer: Do you um... when you do a header remodeling is the uh, do you have any problems with codes, and coding any codes and...

R: No because we're grandfathered in, 

Interviewer: Okay.

R: And we don't have to get uh... wheelchair access because we're grandfathered in, but we still have to you know, we still have to pass fire codes. But as far as what you saying that a lot of, no, I'm pretty much, pretty good in the codes.

Interviewer: Okay.

Unknown: You been here long enough so that...

R: Thirty one years.

Unknown: Yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah, well he grew up here so he's been here...

R: Yeah, and just kinda, I was a substitute school teacher. And this kid kept saying to me we need another Parker, Miss Nautilus, I said uh, I'm not teachin' I'm subin', I just got married, you know so I do listen in to it and then they were immediately, there were four of um they immediately imploded. And then somehow I went from subin' which i would have maybe had a permanent job maybe, and then gettin' in it and I and then, it it was terrible money, terrible money but it was a lot of satisfaction, you know.

Interviewer: I kinda think you'd end up, where you began in life meaning...

R: Me I was kinda athletic background, and it was sorta and extension of athletes you know what I mean,

Interviewer: Mm hm.

R:  I mean it's... and so I'm sorta back or,  at the beginning does that make sense? I don't know.

Unknown: Yeah. Totally, T.S. Eliot the great poet said in life we return to where we started and know it for the first time. Just sorta more wor...

R: Now I always like when people say to me, you're still workin' I'm saying yeah, I like work, I mean uh I look forward to comin up to see my friends and I like the problems don't misunderstand but I love them, go to work, I love to see my  friends and i love to... i like the challenge of business you know you can go broke any day but in business I mean very easily, and I you know I've heard people say oh you're not gonna make it now indiscernible and it's just exciting for me to go to work and if anybody's like, doubting you... you do something exciting or I'll make an improvement I'll expand the freeway room, I will put something in the will generate some... You know right now yoga's gettin big for us and we're gettin all up in that and and it's gotten bigger and bigger and I get people and all that. And free weights, or free weights are comin back, the free up, weights are upstairs now and I'll... Boxin, like hand boxin,

Unknown: Mumbles

Interviewer: For women and men or...

Interviewer: Women love it, you know women love it cause it's hard workout, and uh...

Unknown Woman: To interviewer Hello how are you?

Interviewer: I'm good hun how are you?

Unknown Woman: Good.

Interviewer: Small town.

Unknown: This is it, we should capture all this on I mean, I mean live here, that's great reflection on what I'm talking about.

everyone speaking at once

Interviewer: Well I think you kinda answered this one also and this is my last question, what about Meadville is important to continue into the future.

R: Well sure, sure. Not because we're a college town oh Phil! Peak example Phil, he's a anesthesiologist...

Interviewer: Mm hm.

R: who would never in the, you know he's a big big football fan, we argue everyday, but he's part of my life you know and he's really the, I I love Phil. He lives in my old neighborhood, and he's just a great person and, you know he's so smart and you just kinda like you know I said Phil, what's wrong with my computer? He'll fix it. Phil what's wrong with this? What's wrong with the phone the TV thing, he'll fix it. And he's er... he is he's the anesthesiologist. And he has all this background, he's just a wonderful person and and I, you know I run into people like that all the time, guys that can do little thing that I can't do. My dad was a gambler, when I grew up we didn't you know I didn't have a lot of background when I wrenched and tooled, and now here I am livin' on... i got a wrench and tool in my hand you know what I mean? I mean it's funny how the opposite, and then in that sense, it's what you didn't expect that you, you yu... what you receive yeah.

Unknown: Yes yes yes yes.

R: Yeah, uh I mean uh, when i was a kid you couldn't give me a, I din't know what a screwdriver was. Know that I'm older, I can start fixing things you know.

Unknown: Yup, yeah.

R: Start gettin' better at it. 

Unknown: Mm hm.

R: Wish I'd a had that back when...

Unknown: Mm mm hm I hear ya. This is Pat Barcco owner of the body firm by the way just to say that into you know, that's great thanks for this.

Interviewer: Well actually I don't have anything more I think you've answered these absolutely positively well and I think that the Orton Foundation will go yay!

R: Well, i'm just being honest and I think every business person probably has their own little indiscernible you know I'm certainly not about money i mean if I was I wouldn't be in this business, but I'm about excitement you know I'm about uh, surviving... you know, uh, about innovation, just progress. Thinking. Going to the next indiscernible 

Pat: If you were to envision the next stage of Meadville as a community, how would you envision it how do you see it in your, in your mind's eye?

R: Well, you know there's improvement here, and I was so excited when they got the roads fixed, and I was all for it was for the expansion of uh, north street, the widening of north street, I mean that was exciting to me cause I cooked in north street, I took to the high school continuously to referee games, to go to meetings, and it was a log jam and I said the, this is exciting! Anything that comes into town, there's a soul food restaurant, in Meadville, It's exciting. And anything that come in, you know you're excited about it. But uh, you you know you here so much pessimism about, down towns and the arcade and smaller towns but I wouldn't town this little down town for anything.

Pat: It's great, your enthusiasm is magnetic, it'll pull things in.

R: Yeah, I I... Yeah and I, you know, the first one somebody comes back to Meadville that I've known from before or, they were out of town they say this town looks terrible I say, on the contrary, uh we're doin' good once you get in there Meadville's a progressive little town you know it's got, a college, a hospital here, it's got a fitness center out on the hill, it's the lake indiscernible, we got movie theaters, and uh... more hanging and th, huh?

Pat: More and more restaurants.

R: Yeah we got some decent restaurants but, most places do but, I mean who wants to say their movie theater like, we had a, 'sgot like ten theaters in it, and uh, it's just exciting you know.

Interviewer: And it's also a very community oriented theater.

R: Yes.

Interviewer: You can have your birthday parties there you can have...

others agree in background

Interviewer: And a and and it's it's really...

Pat: Cafe tables that they can watch the big screen...

Interviewer: A community focused, yeah.

R: It's it's a, nice, and they, and the one downtown kinda hanging in there, and they're making some moves to, to improve you know. Ah i... so... that's all I can say.

Interviewer: Okay.

Pat: Thank you thank you.

Interviewer: well i think that was very good.

R: So, okay, we're done?

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: What does the help, the give you money and you do... they give you a grant,

Interviewer: Right.

R: They give you a grant,

Interviewer: Talk to him.

R: Okay and then you just, go recording ends.

 

 

 