Connection Number 004

Interviewer: Kathy Lee

Interviewee: R Eels 

Kathy: So my name is Kathy Lee and you are?

R: R Eels.

Kathy: R Eels and today is January 19th and we're gonna start our interview for community heart and soul, and let me just tell you a little bit about the project, um, it's a grant funded project and they're funding um, volunteers like myself to go into the community and we're trying to get people that live in all different places of Meadville, young people, older people, um, and they're rec, prerequisites is just if you work live or play in Meadville. And the idea is to do these interviews and from the interviews then they're going to make, kinda of little them all down to what our um, statement that seem to run a, across the board, and then they're going to take those statements and present them to people in the community that might be able to make a difference so that be the government that me be, agencies in town, that type of thing. So it's just really a set of simple questions and from that um, they'll take the information and use it for the greater  good of, of Meadville so if that sounds okay to you we can go ahead and get started. 

R: Okay.

Kathy: Get my, cheat sheets here so...so tell me what you love about the city of Meadville.

R: Well I think that the transit system is excellent.Now that I'm a senior I have a free bus pass to the city bus and share a ride, for two dollars one way in Meadville and I haven't driven a car in eleven years.

Kathy: Wow.

R: But I live in Park-side Commons and it's a really good location for walking for most anywhere I need to go. Um... it's been my experience that they have been very reliable. And also, I really appreciate Chaps and Journey Center because they have made a quantum leap in my recovery of my mental illness. With the pier um, pier concept. Before I came here my mental illness was very personal and after i came here a found a lot of like minded people, that I could relate to and they would understand the irrationality of mental illness, which is really hard to convey to family and loved ones.

Kathy: Right.

R: And then Chaps um hosted the series of presentations last summer of, of things in Meadville like the women's services and mental health agencies, I forget some of the other ones. And I think, I was talking to somebody in California and i was talking about the transit system particularly and they said that's really unusual to have such a good system you say you live in a rural area, and I've been told by my mental health services that Meadville has the best services of um, a lot of places. In fact my sister in California said she has to go  a hundred miles to find the club house.

Kathy: Oh wow.

R: Yeah. pause And also um... I lived in quality living center for a year and a half and when I needed their services they were excellent, very supportive they provided transportation so that I could come into town and take this dialectical behavior therapy classes, which lasted several months. So I think education wise Meadville has a lot informed citizens about a multiple of issues,

Kathy: Mm hm.

R: And I appreciate that sharing of communications and socialization.

Kathy: Do you have a favorite memory of living here?

R: Well my two of my classmates from second grade on live in Meadville, and we still get together,

Kathy: Oh!

R: We've been best friends over 60 years

Kathy: Isn't that wonderful. 

R: Yeah.

Kathy: Isn't that wonderful. Aw... that's fantastic. I'm gonna write that down. So you and you still get to see each other and spend some time.

R: At least once a week.

Kathy: Oh wow, isn't that great. that's really great. What matters to you the most about living here, you've said that...

R: Mostly my mental health services.

Kathy: Okay. pause So if I asked the question, what brought you to Meadville laughs that was...

R: My therapist.  

Kathy: Okay.

R: Gave me an application for Park-Side Commons which he felt like I'd be independent from quality living center. pause

Kathy: What do you think capture the spirit of the town?

R: Mm... Second Saturday. 

Kathy: Oh can you tell me more about that?

R: Well that's a bunch of vendors at the Market House, but they also have entertainment and projects for children on the second Saturday. On the other Saturdays its vendors for produce. But on Second Saturday it's more comprehensive to the community. 

Kathy: So um, is that a day long, event?

R: Yeah I think it's like from eight to two and then they have Meadville Friday, which is for Friday evenings.

Kathy: What do they do on a Meadville Friday?

R: I don't know I don't go...

Kathy: Laughs You do't go to Meadville Friday? Uh... huh

R: I think there's food and...

Kathy: Okay, I think I've been to a few Second Saturdays.

R: Yeah.

Kathy: Gone down and walked around and,

R: Yeah.

Kathy: Seen what they had at the Market House. What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't here anymore?

R: pause Journey Center.

Kathy: And why?

R: Because they're a certified club house, indiscernible club house, which means we have an international networking... and so we get impressions, and strengths and weakness from all over the United States. We don't get any international ones but I know that it's an international organization. 

Kathy: Mm hm. 

R: In fact a similar reason I'm not living in Southern California now.

Kathy: Woah! both laugh Well that's a trade off I don't know. It's probably warmer a lot warmer there huh.

R: Yeah it is. 

Kathy: laughs Um, so what would you miss was the Journey Center... What do you think in Meadville is important to continue into the future?

R: I would say Second Saturdays and the, I can't remember the title of that program when they were having that series of presentations last summer but I think just, the college students, and their advocacies as a community. They do these presentations, or they promote these presentations.  

Kathy: Do you remember some of the projects from the presentations, I don't know that I can...

R: Women's services

Kathy: Okay

R: Mental health in Meadville, um, there was one about um, violence.. about when you should call somebody, I can't remember the title of that presentation. pause

Kathy: What would you change in Meadville to make it even better?

R: No.

Kathy: laughs I don't know if we can complain too much this year but...

R: No it's been a good year.

Kathy: Snow so I'm guessing that's decreased the snow.

R: Yeah.

Kathy: What else would you change I mean you look around you see... what are some things that you think may need to be improved upon?

R: Well... I think that um... more, their doing so much for community awareness but I would say to continue that. you know like diamond park ha music in the summer time, free concerts. And I would say that another prominent, agency in Meadville is um, Senior Center, and active aging. they are very purposeful and uh, and they um, have a lot of out reaches like taxes and the library does taxes too, and I'm only about two blocks from the library so it's easy access. 

Kathy: That's a nice program is it.

R: Yeah. pause

Kathy: If you could have one wish for Meadville what would it be? Like if I gave you a magic wand and said, make you wish. 

R: For the old timers here to have an appreciation of what Meadville really offers. The people who have lived here all their lives have no comparisons so a lot, I guess it's easy to complain. But if you, I've lived in, I graduated nursing school in New York State, moved to Southern California '69 to '88, worked in Ohio, New York, California, and Pennsylvania nursing and I have a, a strong geographical base for my opinions and my attitudes, but I think Meadville is um, and exceptional community.

Kathy: And, you feel like maybe some of the older people don't have that appreciation?

R: Right because they've lived here all of their lives. pause

Kathy: Anything else you'd like to tell me about Meadville?

R: pause Well that they have... through their presentations and seminars and services they provide they have uh, um,very extensive outreach to the community. 

Kathy: Are you talking about Chaps?

R: Uh yeah all the, all the college students and... active aging, and Journey Center, Chaps. pause

Kathy: I think that's it.

R: Okay

Kathy: Thank you very much I appreciate it.

R: Sure, nice meeting you.

Kathy: Nice meeting you.

R: Now what board are you on I'm on the advisory board.

Kathy: I'm on the Chaps the main board, the one that meets once a month, yeah yeah, I'm the big cheese you know. both laugh

R: If it's gotta be big it might as well be cheese.

Kathy: That's right! That's right thank you very much.

R: Sure.