SMM009_WF21_31517

Stephanie Martin

Kathy

What do you like about Meadville? 

R: Its only like my second year of living in Meadville I was actually born in Franklin.

Franklin really?

Yeah

So what brought you to Meadville? 

R: My Grandma, and school too. 

Nice

So what are you studying here at LTI? 

R: Administration Security

Cool, all right

So in terms of thinking about settling into Meadville, what are some of the things that you've found welcoming or helped you connect here? 

R: Uh, the people, they have always been, uh nice like they tell you where to go because I ask them directions all the time - they seem pretty friendly and willing to help. 

Have there been any challenges here that you have encountered here that if they weren't there you feel you could have settled in sooner? 

R: Well, if I wasn't too far away, if I was on, cause I'm on Luther? road, if I got like closer or on a bus route that I could go up there that much then I would be..

So you're feeling somewhat isolated in terms of where you live?

R: Yeah a little bit its far away to me 

Less walkable..

Yeah.

If you live close to downtown there's stuff that's walkable , but if you don't not so much.

Yeah.

So is there a specific challenge with the bus services?

R: Well they run up to Northgate - and you have walk all the way up to Northgate to go in the other direction - so that's why I found a shortcut, you can go down this great pathway that I found.  

So, in the time that you've been here what are the favorite things that you've experienced? 

R: The book store, I love books and I love to go read, and the Library too, they have some very nice fiction books upstairs. 

Definitely, yeah - have you ever checked out any of their tech training stuff it seems like it might align with some of what you're doing here.

Not yet, I've been kind of busy with my internship so not like if I could go to so many places. 

Where are you interning? 

R: At DEP - Environmental Protection, Market Street

I've been here for two years and I've been learning all the places you could go and...

Figuring it out? 

Yeah

Was it relatively easy to kind of find new friend groups or peer groups or people to do stuff with or has that been challenging? 

R: A little bit, I mean, I found some friends in school right now, but they'll be going away after they graduate, so...But we have a group chat going on right now

Nice,

So do you see yourself with the degree that you're getting being able to stay in Meadville? 

R: I think I would have to leave - yeah, there's not too many jobs around - there's jobs but not like the one I want to go to, I really want to work with computers and I really want to go to my family too, I have family out in California.

Well, I think that maybe there's opportunities to work with computers here but maybe not something that's gonna grab your attention

Yeah not of what I'm studying

So, If you wanted to make Meadville your longterm home, what would you be looking for here that could help keep you here, like what could we do to improve the town. 

R: Uh, Affordable homes I guess

Any other thoughts or instances 

R: The Chinese food - I've gone a few times - I'm a foodie so I to go find the best Chinese food - The one up in the Plaza area that is pretty good. 

They have a lunch buffet right? 

Yeah, I did have that too, we went up there for lunch and just pigged out. 

Very cool. 

Alright um, thanks for talking to me. 