PM021617_CLF_Samira ChambersOkay we are now recording, Samira can you say your name? 

R: My first name is Samira, 

and your last name? 

R: My last name is Chambers. 

Chambers, nice to have you here, we are recording here on February 16 at the Universal Church in Meadville PA and this is Peter McCaffrey doing the interviewing and Samira how old are you? 

R: 12 years old.

12 and what grade are you in? 

R: Sixth. 

Fifth. 

R: Sixth grade

Sixth, great, great, great. 

And your in Meadville Area Middle School? 

R: No, Second District. 

Secondary? 

R: Second District. 

Second District, okay great.  How do you like it there? 

R: It's good. 

Yea, what do you like about it? 

R: Everything basically. 

Really, Mostly thing all going well? And your subjects are all going well? Whats your favorite? 

R: I really can't say because I like all subjects. 

That's great, that's fantastic. I know you write a little poetry now and then too, yea? Do you get a chance to read it sometimes? 

R: Sometimes. 

Sometimes? Well, I hope you keep up with that. 

What is your memory of Meadville? Whats your first memory of Meadville that you really associate with the town? 

R: When I started this program. 

When you started the... 

R: creating landscapes. 

Creating landscapes, Really? What year did you do that? 

R: I don't remember what year, I was really young. 

So, you were how old then? 

R: like six or seven. 

Six or seven? wow. So you've been in the program for six years? wow. 

What do you like about creating landscapes? Well I like that you can come to a safe place, where you know like you can get help with your homework and stuff. And you have it, who helps you with your homework here? The college students. Yea? And do you get to know them as people or just as teachers? As people. As people, you do? Do you have any that stay over from one year to the next, or they just come each one for a year? Well, they come until they graduate. Okay, so you know some for a couple of years? Who, Can you give me some names of ones that you like? Sarah, I like all of them basically. Yea? That's great. 

Well let me ask you a question, diving way ahead here. Are you thinking about going to college yourself? Yea. No kidding, that's great. Do you have any idea of where you might be going? No, not yet. You haven't thought about that yet, that's good, that's smart, keep your mind open there's a lot out there, and ya know visit around. 

Have you been up to the Allegheny Campus? yea. Yea? when? Last summer. Okay. And a couple summers before that too cause I do usually do a program there in the summer. you do? What kind of program do you do? It's like, it starts in the morning, and it ends in the afternoon, if you stay over it ends in the afternoon, it's really fun but I don't remember much of it because I didn't do it last year. Okay, you didn't do it last year? No. 

Okay, what did you do last year? I did Kristine's school of dance last year. What's it called again? Kristine's school of dance. Oh, no kidding right here in Meadville? What did you do in the school of dance? We dance, we sing, we did a lot of things, and we performed in August. I'm pretty sure in August we performed. Yea, what kind of dances did you do? We did Hip Hop, we did hula hooping, and gymnastics and we sung too. Wow, wow, wow, wow. So did they let you pick your music or did they? Yea, if you wanted a solo yea. No kidding. What kind of dances did you do? Mostly Hip Hop. Oh really? And who's your Hip Hop? my mom was this year. Your mom is your. My mom was this year, last year. She was? So she was, so explain that, she was there? Yea, she taught us the dances. 

No kidding, I did not know that. That's fantastic. So your moms a dancer? Usually, she likes to dance a lot. Wow, that's fantastic. So do you model your dances a lot on what your mom teaches you or what you see on... Well it's basically songs that say the dance moves and she taught us how to do them. Okay. For most of the songs. Wow, and you do these moves in unison with other dancers or on your own? Yea, there's a lot of kids there. 

Wow, so you had a performance at the end of the summer? Was it good? My god, how exciting! 

So I'm getting a little off the track here but I'm so fascinated with this. So do you know what, will you go back to that camp again next summer? yea, but I don't know when it starts. I don't know when it starts though. Okay, but your gunna plan to be back there again? And do you keep up your dance during the year at all? Yea usually, and I also play basketball so. Oh you do? Over here at the Y? Yea, sometimes with my moms team. I hear your moms team is doing pretty well. 

So your mom seems to be everywhere in a funny way. Yea. In a good way. That's part of Meadville also in a way because it's kind of a small city, It's not like Pittsburgh, and so one person like your mom can have a tremendous effect because there's a smaller scale. I'm sort of pushing my own understanding of it rather than asking you, but, what other things does she do? Well she helps with this program and the garden which is basically this program but in the summer we garden and stuff. She helps with the lunch program, which is with Kristine's School of dance, we eat lunch and then go to Kristine's school of dance, but that starts like a week after the lunch program starts.  

So she, tell me about the garden program? Is this down by Second District School? Yea, right across from it. After this program ends we start the garden and we garden, we plant fruits and vegetables and stuff, we water them every Tuesday and Thursday we go there and sometimes we just go by in the week just to check up on them too. Wow, and so you started the garden program in like April or May or something like that? Yea I'm pretty sure, most likely June too. So when it starts to get warm? yea. And then you tend to garden all summer? And then you bring, you harvest the fruit and vegetables as they come ripe? And we have a pot luck at some point. You have hot lunch? No, a pot luck. Pot luck, oh fantastic! Do you know when that happens? I don't know exactly because it just happens like randomly cause my mom and the other people plan it. Okay, so it happens when their ready to get it done? Yea. When there's like a lot of the foods harvest and stuff. So, they made a wonderful homemade soup for election day I remember, from the vegetables that came out of the garden, and I got one that day, that terrible day, such a depressing day, but that was the thing that made me feel very very very good. 

Wow, so tell me more. How does the community become connected to the garden? Do you, how does that happen? Well, the gardens for everybody basically, it's like not just ours. It's for everyone and we plant food there so people can just take it if they want to while were like planting and stuff. So when you say it's for everybody are you talking about all of the people that live in that area can come around? Anybody in Meadville can. Okay and do people work in the garden together at specific times? Sometimes, some people come and help. And how many people do you think actually participate? Well most people from here do and a couple others come along. Wow so your talking maybe as many as 20-40  people. Not that much. More like 10-20. 10-20 okay, that's great though! And you from that, you provide food for the potluck and for the soup that you made on election day and events like that. Wow. 

So what do you think the importance of the community garden is? So people can have food. Yea? And so we can help others. And good, so food and connection to each other, community. 

So this is sort of a hard topic, but I'll just ask you a question. Do you think it would be as easy in another city to have a community garden like that? No, I don't think so. Why? We had to go through a lot of work to get the garden where it is right now. What kind of work? Mrs. Clausen, the area was open so we wanted to make the garden there but Mrs. Clausen had to go, I think she had to do a lot of paperwork to get it there and stuff. So she had to sort of organize the community people to get involved? Yea. And what was that land being used for before? It was, I'm really not sure it was just an open field basically. Okay, wow. Yea your mom took me down there for a tour one day, on election day and I was just amazed. It was still a very warm November day and you could still see the, some actually vegetables, and some fruits actually still coming off the vines down there at the very late winter day. Such a warm winter that we had ya know fruits and vegetables coming on in late November practically this year, so it was amazing, but I got a sense of how important that garden was to the community. I could feel it. One thing is for the kept open space in the community so people could sort of go out of their houses and gather around the garden and feel safe and feel sort of connected to each other is a beautiful experience. 

So, give me some other things that go on regularly in Meadville that make it special. Well I really don't know much, but this program, the garden, Kristine's School of Dance, the lunch program are basically anyone on Elm Street can come to eat because there is different areas that have that too and we all come to the same dance. But every year we have dance on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. And on Tuesdays and Thursdays we do something else, like every year is different. Last year it was like a gym thing, it was really fun. And the year before that it was karate. 

Wow, so you do a different activity.. For Tuesdays, and Thursdays every year, yea. Okay, and how does this program connect to physical activity? Well it really doesn't, but that's just a different thing we do in the summer to stay active, along with the garden. So basically those programs are, they don't have nothing to do with each other I don't think, not that what I know of. My mom would probably know more about that than I do. So but you have, the garden keeps people outdoors and physically active during the summer and so like you would come home after your dance classes in the summer and work on the garden a little bit and be outdoors/ well, not on the dancing days because the gardens on Tuesdays and Thursdays like this program is, so like after our activity on Tuesdays and Thursdays we would go to the garden. Okay, and does this program have, is connected to the YMCA right next door or? Yea, they're our sponsor. There are sponsors? For my moms basketball team. Okay. Yea it's our sponsor.  So the kids that come to creating landscapes can actually go and become part of the basketball team after.. Well, I'm not sure my mom would know more about that. 

Do you have more see of kids who are not in creating landscapes are actually on the basketball team also? Some from the Meadville Middle School. So from Meadville public schools? Yea. Okay, so how many hours a week do you actually spend in basketball and creating landscapes every week? Well, I do this on Tuesdays and Thursdays, basketball practice on Fridays and Sundays and sometimes are games are on Friday. Oh okay, so Tuesday, Thursday here, and Friday basketball practice and sometimes games on Friday and sometimes Sunday? Yea. Okay, that's pretty good. 

And do you have any trouble balancing your homework with your athletic activities? No, I usually finish my homework at school so I can turn it in there and I wont get a loss here and stuff. Wow. That's great so by the time you get out your pretty much free and your not using, your not in need of that much help here after school. Yea, but if I don't finish it I come here and I get a lot of help with it to. Okay, alright great. 

Tell me more about Meadville, things that you feel about living here, that memories, or just.. Yea, I love it here because like all my friends are here, I basically know where everything is here, and I just love it. So it's a community you know well. You have your connections with your friends here. 

What parts of Meadville, are there particular places in Meadville that you particularly like? Well I like the parks, especially Roche park that's my favorite one because.. Which one? Roche Park. Roche Park? Okay. Yea it's my favorite park. I'm a little bit of a new comer here so I don't know all the parks, I have seen you know The Diamond, but Roche Park I don't know, I know the one over by the Women's Center where the basketball courts are. That's, I think your talking about Fifth Ward, with the baseball stuff there. It's more, there are a couple basketball courts there, it's down Grove Street. Oh, that's Elm Street I'm pretty sure. Oh okay, so I know that one, but Roche Park... It's by the big movie theater. The movie theater? The big one that's up on the hill. Over by the Movies at Meadville? There's two different movies, there's one that's by Family Video and there's one that's sort of by Sheetz, but instead of going straight you turn. So yea there's one down on on Park Avenue, the Park Avenue theater that's one, then there's one out.. Out more, yea. By where K-Mart used to be. Yea. Yea that way. Ok. Then there's a park out in that direction? Yea, but I'm pretty sure you would have to go a little farther then that. Oh, okay. There's one down by Ernst Trail too, there's, that whole area is kind of a park in a way, but have you been on the Ernst trail yet? I don't think so, I don't think so. Okay. It's nice, It's a nice walk. So Roche Park, defiantly a place, anything else? 

Any other places here that you particularly like being at? Not really, but anything with a basketball court I would really love. Yea? yea. Is there anything down by Second District? Yea, there's one at Second District. Oh yea? Do you go out there and play? Yea, me and my family do sometimes. Fantastic. And that's a court that you can go to at anytime of day or night? Feel safe there? Yea, besides school hours. Cool, cool. And you guys well lit. We live close to it. Okay and if you wanted to go out and play at night could you play at night? yea. Far out, far out. So your a hoopster, you like to play? Yea. It's a great great game, god I love basketball. I have been playing since third grade. I have been playing basketball since third grade. Oh my god, stay with it, it's a beautiful game. The girls are playing the game really well now, I mean they're great to watch. In my day the rules prevented them from really having alot of flow in the game, but now they play just like the boys and they play really well. So stay with that, whatever you do. Yea, give me, what would you say.. 

This is sort of a tough question to think about, what do you think, is there anything that you would recommend that would make Meadville better, a better place? A little more stores and I think that's all, that's all I can think of. More, more little more stores downtown? Yea. Not the ones out in Vernon, out by Walmart, right downtown. So people that are closer here can go there easier. That you can walk to. Yea. 

Okay, do you, give me a memory that you have of Meadville that really makes this town, really shows someone from the outside of this town, what Meadville's really like. Do you have a memory that really... When we first started this program, and we welcome anyone here. And how do you make that happen? Well we, I usually sometimes invite my friends and I tell them about and they sometimes say I really want to come, so they ask their parents and they say yes and they usually come here. Yea my friends, two of my friends were here, one of my friends were here on Tuesday. Trina comes a lot but she got sick so she couldn't come today. Trina? She's from Allegheny? No, she's like she's in sixth grade. Oh, she is okay. Alright, I think I met her on Tuesday. Her name is Daisy with the broken arm. Oh no, I guess I didn't, maybe she wasn't here. No, have you met Shyonna? Name sounds really familiar but I.. The one with the really long hair and some of it is red. I think I have. I'm pretty sure you have too. And she's from your school? okay. So she's a sixth grader also? So those are your two friends? Yea. Daisy and Shyonna pretty much. And they come every Tuesday and Thursday? They try to. Try to. So it's nice that you can have friendships here and still get your work done. That's pretty good. 

And they feed you at the end of the day? So what do you think about those meals? I really like them. They're amazing! and they give a snack when you come here too. So that's another part of the experience of creating landscapes, that they feed you here. And what do you think, how does that work out, who cooks the meals? There are people in the kitchen that basically stay there. When they get here they go in the kitchen and cook for us, set up the dining room and they stay in there until it's dinner time cooking. 

Wow and then your out with your tutor out in the other part, the other room where you get your homework done or sometimes you have little skits or plays or performances there also. And we have lessons too. We have lessons too. Yea, oh you do give me an example of a lesson. We did this lesson where we were learning about im-prov, so we actually did a im-prov play and it went really well. No kidding. So tell me about im-prov. What is im-prov? It's acting without a script. You make up the lines as you go? Yea. So they give you a situation and you just fill it in with your own thoughts about whats right at the moment? yes. That's pretty cool. What did you play? Well, we really didn't like play characters, we just like flowed with it. We didn't really play characters. You just sort of played parts of the plot? yea. Okay and you did play different characters? kind of. Alright, that's wild. 

Let me ask you a question that, what if, what would you miss if it was no longer part of Meadville. Something that you lost? Can you rephrase that? Yea, sort of another way, back door kind of question, name something that if it were no longer part of Meadville you would really miss. This program! This program, okay good. That's come up three times for you or four times maybe that this program really is a sensual part of  your Meadville experience. A very important part. And you've said it before but let me just hear you say it again. What is it particularly about this program that makes it very special for you? Just like everything here, like I'm glad that the college kids come here and they're like giving to help us, and I'm glad everyone can come here and get here safe and have meals with us every Tuesday and Thursday when they can. 

Did you use the word safe, a couple times today. Yea. What are the things that, would you, what would one have to be safe about? What do you need safety in Meadville? Are there places where it's unsafe? Oh, no it's just like when the roads are icy and stuff and your driving cars. Oh okay so it's indoors, it's warm, it's safe physically from the winter weather, and it's safe in terms of having adults around and people to feed you, tutor you and keep you doing well. Okay, wow. Just keeping time. 

Well that's really amazing Samira. Just looking over a little list here of things. Do your have any questions or? No. Well this interview has been really, really delightful. I'm really very grateful for your thoughts and if you want to you could think about maybe getting together a little group. Maybe we could have a little group discussion sometime? Okay. Or maybe when Daisy and Shyonna come in, they're not in today though right? No, I don't know when Daisy will be back because she's sick, so when she comes back to school I'll ask her if she could come here. Okay. I'd love to do that, get together a little four way discussion. That was really great, I'm really really pleased. So we're going to, we may, do you mind if we possibly use some of your thoughts, or use your voice if we were to make a video or something like that? No. Do you mind if we, you okay? Thanks! I'm going to get your mom to sign a little release form for you to do that. I'm very very happy that we worked together today and I'm going to shut this down for a minute. 

PM021617_CLF_youth1

I just tell all my friends, and I tell them do not talk on this side of me I will not hear you unless you talk loud. Okay. Can't hear him on this one either. Yea, so do you guys carefully read peoples lips and so fourth? Yea, I do a lot of that. You do? Yea so if my friends talk to me and I can't understand her I read her lips. And so that helps, so if you talk slowly and more loudly? I do not know. Is it easier to hear boys voices than girls voices? I'd say it's easy to hear both. I say boys are easier because they're obnoxious. I think boys are easier because they're obnoxious. They have more hearing than girls. They do? Some boys can't ear and some girls can't. Yea, yes it goes both ways. Let me, just introduce yourselves on the tape so we have, so we know where were going, just say what your name is and your age and where you go to school. I'm Diamond, I'm thirteen, I go to school at Meadville Area Middle School. Great I'm Georgia and I'm ten and I go to Second District. Okay and I'm Peter McCaffrey and I'm doing the interview here at The Creating Landscapes Program at the Church in Meadville. So we have Daisy and Emily here, 10 and 13. I'm Georgia Emily, you didn't say my full name. Oh okay, so it's Julia? Georgia Emily. Excellent, so we got Georgia right the first time. Georgia Emily. Newsome. Newsome, okay great! So we got Georgia Emily Newsome. And I'm Diamond. I'm Diamond. You said Daisy. What's her last name? What's your last name? Hoffman. Coffman? Hoffman. What's your last name? My last name is McCaffrey. Say it. McCaffrey. And what do they call you? Do people call you your full name? They call me Diamond. Diamond, great, that's a beautiful name. 

So you guys think about, maybe I'm going to ask you, maybe an easier question. Hopefully it's easy. What is your first memory of Meadville? What's an early memory of Meadville, that makes Meadville special to you? I like the garden. You like the garden? Where do you garden? Behind my house, Beside my house. Okay. And I have a neighbor. You have a neighbor, is your house down by Second District School? No, yes Second District. It is? Yea. So your down by the community garden? Yea, you'll see the number on the school and you'll see my number, that's where I live across, and my friend 00:00 lives across from the school. Okay. He can walk to school. Wow. But I can walk across the street, across the street. Cool, cool. So that's nice your really close to the school, your right in the same neighborhood actually. Yea. That's really good. So easy to get to school. And I only get to see my friends at school. My friend Jayden rides the bus. Oh really? He comes from a long way away. What about you Diamond? He lives by the, you know coming this way you'll see the Medicine Shop that's where he lives. Oh okay. Behind it. Alright, I know where that is, that's kind of, that would be a long walk, to hard to walk from down there, especially in the winter. 

You can catch a Cata bus, Cata bus. Yea, Cata bus for sure. Yea, that's what number it is? That's keeping track yup, we gotta write that number down at the end but.. Me and you? All of us yea, I'll write it down. With a pencil? Yup, one of my pens right here. A grey one? Well maybe I'll use one of these little black ones, I think it's a black one. It's grey. Is it grey? Great, that should work. 

One of my first memories is going down and playing in the creek down in Shady Brooke, we, me and my brother played down in the creek and we tried to catch craw fish. Wow on a summer day? Me and my mom.. yea. We go fishing. In like the middle of the summer. Okay, hold on one at a time here okay? Me and my mom go fishing. Yea? So fishing down here in French Creek? Yea. No. Where? Oh, so Diamond yes, you'd say yes? Yea French Creek is the Creek that runs all through town. Yes, beautiful creek. And I see boats there. You have? Wow. Canoes? I think I see big boats and little boats. Wow. Some are far away, some come our way. Yea. Yea, yea. I know there are boats up on the reservoir, sometimes.. 

What's your favorite color? My favorite color is blue. Say 00:00 Blue, my favorite color is blue. Mine's red, what's yours? Mine's black. So.. That's a scary color. Yea. I have a black cat. You do? I have a black cat. Cool. I have two black cats. Oh yeah? Two or three, i don't know. She lives by, oh what's the name? First District. Not First District. Yea.. You live First District? Over by First District. Over by First District. First District, okay great. 

What do you guys think makes Meadville a special community, what's different about Meadville? Do you, have you thought about it? The community garden. The community garden for sure, everybody..

 All the historical markings around the town. Historical markings. Why don't we use this part? Like this one. Like the statues in Diamond Park. Yes. How about you bring it closer to our mouth? Well this is pretty powerful, you can actually record right from there, so that, you'd be surprised it works really well. So Diamond... Why is Diamond closer to the microphone? Diamond is a little closer but your pretty close, your close enough. This chair wobble, the arm. I know, it's an old chair. But that's like, this is an historical town so there are definitely old furniture like this and signs around the town that show the history of the town, and the statue in Diamond Park. 

You can record on the T.V. and watch it, yea if I had a video but not today, but another day probably we'll be able to do that. Any things that you Georgia, that you remember Georgia Emily about Meadville that make it a special place other than the community garden? I, me and a friend Hunter we go to, by the school to the park, and me and another boy Hunter we went behind. To the Park behind the school? Behind my house. Oh. And I was allowed to go there, I went across the street and left and took my bike there. Oh cool. A friend did, Hunter. Let me.. A girl. A girl? That's a beautiful name. 

Let me ask you a question, do you guys feel safe wherever you go in Meadville pretty much? I don't go with a parent. Without, you don't go without a parent? I go with.. With a parent? A boy. With a boy and then you feel safe? He's 00:00 but he doesn't tell my mom where I'm going. Do you, would you get in trouble if you, oh okay. Yea. So you gotta be careful about certain things that you choose to do. And my dad found my bike. Oh he did? Did somebody take it? I put it behind 00:00 house and he found it. I do not find certain parts of Fifth Ward very safe. Explain that Diamond. Fifth Ward, certain parts of it is not very safe. A lot of gangs hang out down there over at Lincoln Park if you go onto the trail a lot of gangs hangout there to. Really? What's it called, Lincoln? Yea. Lincoln Park. It's over in Fifth Ward. Really? Are we gonna stay here for a long time?  Yea me and my mom and my brothers used to walk the trail at Lincoln Park all the time, but we don't go down there no more because there's a lot of gangs. Really, really? I did not know that. Wow. What do you.. She has a blue 00:00  watch. Yea, it's a beautiful watch. So who do you think are in these gangs? Not sure? They members of the community here in Meadville? Yea, I am pretty sure most of them live down in Fifth Ward. All live down in Fifth Ward? Yea. And you would feel not safe going down there alone obviously? Yea going down that trail, even if I have my family with me I would not feel safe. I do not feel safe going down there anymore with my family. So if you go down, does your family ever go down there? No, not anymore we stay at the park, we don't go onto the trail anymore. So that's a place you avoid pretty much now? Yea. 

Okay, are there, generally would there be any other places in Meadville that you felt unsafe? No, I don't.. Are you gonna ask us more questions? I don't get out much. Yea, just a few more. I walk from my house to the school and that's about it. Sometimes down to the mall but it's pretty safe. Sometimes you hangout down at the mall? Yea. And that's a pretty safe place? Generally speaking, yea so I would assume. And your parents are okay with you going down there? Yea. Alright and you go down alone or hangout with kids? Friends. Friends.. 

How about, what about your homework and stuff like that, do you do most of your homework here at creating landscapes, or at school or how do you do it? I don't get a lot of homework. You don't? Okay. No, I'm in special ed. Oh alright. I have homework. You do, everyday? Yea, i don't know when we do it we do our 00:00 and then we do our fake homework, our real homework at school and then we get a real homework at home. We got to do, we have to let somebody sign it. Do you do your homework here at creating landscapes too? I have to bring it, I forgot to bring it to church and let the college kids do it with me. Oh okay, that's good. If you bring it with you they'll do it with you when your here. That's great.. So.. 

How do you know landscapes? Landscapes, well I used to come here and volunteer a little bit a couple of years ago also and I know Rosemary just from the community and I know some of the other people who work here. Joyce Clausen and some of the students who work here in the afternoon also I know from Allegheny. 

Yea, since I've started middle school I've became a lot more familiar with the town because I like doing community service projects with my school. Wow, tell me about that. I do service Saturday up at Allegheny College, we do that every month. We'll do it here at the library, we'll go around and pick up trash from around town. Wow, that's great. So you get to know the community better because you do community service? What kind of service work do you do then here? Up at Allegheny we get assigned a spot and then we go there, sometimes it's gardening, sometimes it's picking up trash, helping the elderly. Wow, that's really really wonderful. When did you start doing that Diamond? The start of middle school. The beginning of middle school, okay that's great. Will you continue then into high school? yea. 

Do you, have you, so you've been up the the Allegheny campus? Yea. What do you, how do you, what do you think about it? Want me to write my name down? Am I gonna write your down? On the board. You know what I'm definitely going to write your name down here on this piece of paper. On the board. Well I'm going to write it here for sure. Oh alright, And you can copy it off the board. You want to write it for me? Yea. Thank you. She can write with me. There's a black one. Want to? Okay. I'll tell my friend. That's not a pretty good marker. That's not a pretty good marker. That's not o good. We have company. 

So what do you think about the Allegheny campus? I think it's pretty welcoming. I used to go to summer camp up at Allegheny and I do a lot of community services around there. Here, you wanna write your name on the board? That's great. It works. Have you, Georgia have you been up the the Allegheny campus? No. Well you gotta go up there. I write my name for you to see, she did her last name too. May I ask you a question? 

Have you ever thought about going to college? Yea. Yea? What have you thought about doing, where have you thought about going? My mom wants me to go to a college in Mississippi, I want to go to Allegheny. You'd like to go to Allegheny? Yea. It's a really good school, it's very pretty, pretty campus very much so. She wants you to go to where? A college in Mississippi. Mississippi, which one in particular? Not sure? Do you know why she wants you to go there? Not sure? We don't know why she wants my friend to go there. I want to go to South Main school. Well you've got a long time to figure it out. She may have some reasons, but you've got to look at schools..

I'll more than likely be going to college in Maine. In Maine? Cause that's where I'm moving when I'm eighteen. You're gonna move there? By yourself? When? When I'm eighteen. No, with my friend I call her my mom she's not my birth mom but we're really close so I call her my mom and two of my other friends. We're all gonna move to Maine. 

Do you have a feeling that you want to move Meadville then, for a period of time? I particularly do not want to leave Meadville. I don't want to, I want to go out and venture new places. Good. So I want to leave but I'll probably return. That's great, you've thought that through, that's terrific. That's great Diamond. It's good to see the world. 

And what are the things that would bring you back to Meadville? What would.. My mom wants me to leave. Your mom? But I want to stay at South Main. You want to stay in South Main? Yea. Here. Here, so you like this city? Yea. This is your home? Yea. You feel safe. South Main is my home, with my cat, my brother, my sister, my dad, my mom. Wow. And my cereal. And your.. And my food. And your food, gotta have food. Yea. Definitely gotta have food. But I don't have a dollar to buy food, only change. But your mom takes care of the food for you. Yea, if I'm gone and she'll take care of my clothes. Wait I'll bring, I have to pack my clothes. 

Oh your that? Yup, that's us Heart and Soul. So, you know, you guys are three years apart. Your ten years old. Your thirteen years old. So you guys will both begin to think about where you do want to live and whether you want to live here in Meadville or raise your children here, or come back here after going out to college somewhere else. So you got to sort of start to think about what draws you to Meadville, what things you would like to experience outside of Meadville, how your gonna bring those things together in your life and something that's good to think about.. 

I really wanna go to Texas, do you live at Texas? I've been there I haven't lived there but I have been there, yes, a few times. It's an amazing place. You might see me there. I might see you there? You planning on going there? Yea, with a friend. Yea. Art teacher. Your art teacher, she gonna take you down there? Yea. What are you gonna see? I might get to see you there. You might, if I'm there I'll definitely recognize you, I'll say hello. I'll be friendly definitely. It's a big state, there's a lot to.. Does she wanna go to Texas? I think, Diamond. I've been to Texas I did not really like it. Yea? You might get to see me there. It's a different culture in some ways than ours. I've lived in a cold climate my whole life so I'm afraid if I go to Texas I'm gonna have a heat stroke. That's why when we move to Maine we're gonna move in the middle of the winter. When it's winter in Maine. Texas is gonna be 00:00 You may actually love to be here, ya know Maine is not that different in some ways than Meadville. Yea I know. Weather wise. But it's a little bit different culture, it's right on the ocean, the coast line is wonderful and it's got a very big interior which is full of great, a lot of forests and.. We're gonna be in.. 

Why can't you record us on your phone, now when we're talking, I'll hold it and I'll let you guys talk. Okay. If I hold your phone and let you, and I'll record it. Well I don't even know, I'm not sure how to record on my phone yet actually so I'm getting, I'm gonna... I'll try. I would prefer not to be recorded. Why, you nervous? No, I just don't want to be recorded. I do. I've always had a shy with photos and videos. You speak really well though, both of you guys do. You 00:00 yourself very well. How about you record me and him talking? No. You nervous? No, I just don't want to record I hate recording stuff because then it always ends up hating me and like I drop the phone or something. Yea. I don't want to break his phone. It's pretty sturdy but thank you, thank you for thinking about that. 

What other things would you miss if they were not here in Meadville, some specific things? I would miss all the communicable opportunities. Whoopsies. Like Allegheny community service Saturday and Creating Landscapes. Very thoughtful Diamond, that's really wonderful. 

What would you like to see here that's not here right now? I found a recording part. I would like to see like more parks and more community places, like parks, the Y, the library, more like places that are open to the community. Okay so more art, did you say more art first one? Did you say the first thing was more art? More parks. More parks, more things open to the community like libraries, community center, alright. I found. Do you think that... Thank you. Do not ruin his phone. Thank you. I didn't. Your good. So do you think, is that something we don't have as many of those places as we would like to have. Yea. Okay, right now.. Did you just hear that noise, oh, that's good. 

Because a lot of stuff around Meadville is profit you need to pay to get in or you need to have money to get in and a lot of families in Meadville do not have profit so I would like to see more non profit places. Yea, more so they're more affordable for people to participate in. Yea. Wonderful. 

Do you, what do your friends do around Meadville like after school when they're not actually in school? Yea, not sure? I have no clue. Yea really, so if they're not here at Creating Landscapes your not really sure where they are? Yea if they're not here, they're not at school, and if they're not at my church I really have no clue where they're at. 

Okay, is church an important place for you also? Yea. Okay. What do you, What activities do you do at church? I go to Living Waters, I go to their youth group, it's at the church up on the hill it's just like from I think six to eight. I go there we talk about God, worship, eat, hangout. 00:00  That's a great Sunday activity for you. Yea. Wow, so you have Creating Landscapes, community service at Allegheny, you have your church. 

What do you do say Monday, Wednesday, Friday afternoons? Are you engaged in any activities those days? On Mondays and Wednesday I'm going to be starting a new program at school. It's the Martin Luther King Jr. Program. I'm gonna be starting that on Mondays and Wednesdays. That's great. 

And on Fridays I don't really have much to do. I get home I pack my stuff then I go to my dads. Oh okay so you go and spend some time with him. Yea. That's good. You need some down time too, where you just don't have anything planned at all. Yea. That's good also. 

What do you think about the downtown area of Meadville? Do you have any suggestions for it, responses to it? Like by the downtown mall, family video and stuff like that? Okay, a lot of people will run the traffic light. One time I was crossing between Wendy's and the car dealer and I almost got hit because a car ran a red light so i try, I don't think I've crossed that intersection in a while. I will walk down the street cross and walk up the street cause I get so scared of being hit. Yea, so people just not watching the lights. Yea. They just go through. So more attention to that. 

Your, you tend to spend much time downtown or do you usually go out shopping to the stores outside in Vernon? I'm all over town. I'll go up to Walmart, I'll go to the mall. I'll be in my yard, I'll do community service projects. Good, Good. So you kind of spread out in your activities. 

Where would you say you spend most of your time Georgia, where do you spend most of your time in Meadville? At the community, I go to school at Second District and we do our vales. So you do, Second District is where you spend most of your time? Working. Do you have, when your not at Creating Landscapes where do you go? Do you just, are you at home after school? No, I come here. That's just Tuesday, Thursday though right? Yea, but if we don't have 00:00  we be at home. Okay, okay that's what I thought. I also do a lot of projects with my girl scout troop out in the community. I'm pretty sure every weekend I have something planned to do out in the community and if I can not find something to do I'll go volunteer at the library or at the Y or something. Whooopsies. So say that again Diamond I'm sorry. I also do a lot of community projects with my girl scout troops in and out of Meadville. Really, so you really are engaged. Yea, with the community and if I do not have something planned a weekend I will go volunteer at the library or at the Y or go up, pick up stuff around town. Wow good for you, good for you. Staying busy, staying involved. You're going to be a very strong community service leader when you grow up i think in very many important ways. That's a great thing to see. Well think about you may even find a way to make your profession into something that serves the public you know? You can earn a very good living for yourself and do very good work in the community and have that balance of a good income but also self respect and know your helping other people, which is a wonderful experience to have. 

Well you guys I am really really grateful. Where did Georgia go? Hi, how you doing? Sit down, thank you. Do you have any other questions or things you want to share with me? I had a great time, great to know you. Thank you, thank you, now let me just. Yea, thank you. See if I can just do this right here. What?

PM021617_CLF_JamesChambers

James, could you say your full name? James Tyreese 00:00  Chambers. And I have a little hearing problem so. James Chambers. James Chambers? Yea. And your are fifteen? Yea. And your at The Meadville High School? Yea. Alright. And we're sitting in the conference room at the Unitary Universal Church and your a member of the Creating Landscapes Program/ Yes, I am. 

Okay, tell me about your experience of Meadville, any memories or any things that stand out about your life here? Well I've always been in school, in Meadville schools most of my life and I have pretty good experience they've taught me a lot and I learned a lot of things like skating and stuff here and this is where I first learned how to ride my bike and stuff like that. Yea, and all my memories are mainly here. I moved around a few time but Meadville is where I belong apparently I guess. What are the things you like about living here? I like that it's small there's not a lot of people and you like know everyone cause it's small and you practically know everyone here and it's kind of like a family town to me anyways. 

Okay are there any places that kind of stand out in terms of places you like to gather? The Diamond Park, I like that place a lot. What's important to you about the Diamond Park? What do you like about it? I like all the statues and like around Christmas time there's lights everywhere it's decorated and it's really nice and pretty and I like the pavilion thing. It's a little bit of historical, the statue and you like the look of it with the lights and.. Yea. Do you think it's important for a town to have a park like Diamond Park? Yea. Why? Because more people can gather and just be themselves and have fun I guess, community place for everyone. Sort of center place for the community, sort of neutral territory everybody can come. Yea. 

What are things that stand out to you in Meadville as a community that make it essentially Meadville? Anything that you can't get anywhere else in your experience? Generosity of them, cause I've seen 00:00  people, like various people that don't have houses and stuff and they like to help out with others and I think that's really good for a small town, to help everyone out through stuff like that. That sort of community service helping one sell a man. Yea. It's very strong here. Yea. You know that? Yea. Excellent. 

Where do you see it, give me some examples of where you see it happening. Like even at school, I know it's not big but like when people need lunch money and stuff like that and I've seen people post things like on Facebook where they've given people like food and stuff that didn't have anything and like stuff like that. I know it's small but it's like big to some people that don't have things. So making sure they have food, basic stuff. And how do they make sure they have, how do they get this food to them? I'm not sure, some people like there's charity places and there's like pantries and stuff and.. Okay, okay that's you'll figure it out, you'll investigate those channels as you go along you'll see where they build. 

And this program is one of them where people are really supportive really well. Yea. You feed people here. 

What is, any other qualities of the people in Meadville you celebrate? I'm not sure. Yea, you haven't been to a lot of other places yet. No, not really. What is a place that, if it wasn't here in Meadville, Meadville would be just completely different to you? The Baldwin Reynolds house definitely. The Baldwin Reynolds House, okay. Yea. Why that? Cause it's like to me it's like our main monument in Meadville and it has a lot of special value. What does it provide? What's the value that it does provide? It provides, like it teaches people about the history of it, also it's like a museum you can look around and community place as well. It's just it's beautiful. Wow, so it  sorry. So it teaches history it's like living history, it's beautiful to look at, it's a place people can gather. Yea. Again like Diamond Park. Great answers, great answers. 

So that would be the one place, any other places that are just totally special? Not really, not to me cause I haven't been a lot yet but I'm pretty sure. Diamond Park would be the other one. Diamond Park especially Diamond Park, yea, those two things. 

What do you think Meadville needs? What's it lacking? I mean, there's not really any youth things that teenagers and like kids can go to, that turns into to like they get in trouble and stuff and they a lot of the kids are in placement and jail and all that stuff because they don't have something to occupy them and keep them out of trouble. Wow so just a place to go to keep them productive activities. 

Yea, Like this actually. Yea. And you think there are people actually in jail because they didn't have that then.. Yea, cause they, they don't have something to occupy them they often like turn to the bad things. Like some people don't have anything to go to, like don't have a home, they don't have a a good family so they turn to places like Creating Landscapes and stuff that will help them and if they don't they do people do do bad things in this world but it's not.. So you've seen this yourself? Yea. Does that happen with kids your age? Yea. Wow. Often time younger and middle school. Really? Yea. How do you see it? Do you see them stepping off and into bad behavior? Yea, I see they're like good and like younger and when they grow up they have their families are like trouble and I tell them not to, I tell them to come over here hang out with me because I like to demonstrate good behavior to others because some people don't have that in their family don't have a structure in their family that they need. Yea, that's beautiful,  well said beautifully said. Beautifully said James. 

So other than places to go and things to do is there anything else that would be good for the kids in Meadville in particular or.. I'm not sure, well a lot of kids have to walk and I don't cause there's like dangers, I know it's hard to say in Meadville but there are dangers in Meadville sometimes and it's not like I don't like seeing kindergartners walk. I think I wish there was like transportation for everyone not just for some people. Wow, great good for you because it's dangerous on the sidewalks, in the winter, cars. Kindergartners? And you see them walking alone? Yea, all alone. Wow so there should be some kind of transportation system for them. That's a great idea, that's a beautiful idea. Safety and transport, okay. 

If you were to envision an ideal Meadville in ten years what would you place in that vision? It's hard to say. A place where like everyone can get a job no matter what you've done. Anything. A place where teenagers hangout as well. Good transportation for everyone  and maybe like a soup kitchen for everyone to eat if they don't have anything. Yea definitely, a soup kitchen for everyone to eat if they don't have anything. Wonderful, that's great, fantastic. 

Are there things here that you think could attract or that you think should be here that could attract outsiders, people that don't know the town that well that might be thinking about coming here. Maybe, we have a lot of parks that are beautiful, like we have good parks and the Baldwin Reynolds and the Diamond Park are I'm pretty sure like the big things cause the statues in Diamond Park and The Baldwin Reynolds House and yea. Okay Diamond Park, Reynolds statue has historical landmarks kind of in the city for sure. 

Just you know sort of wondering about the downtown in specific something that you would see that might improve the downtown. I'm not sure. Okay, that's good, that's fine something you haven't necessarily thought about. 

What about in terms of the schools in Meadville, anything that you feel would improve the schools? Our education isn't the best. I wish we had like tougher teachers to like teach better. Not all the teachers are bad but their teaching methods aren't necessarily the best and stronger anti bullying laws that cover cyber bullying everything. Si it's not.. So you've had experience with cyber bullying? Yea. I'm sorry. It's alright. You working it through? Yea. You seem strong, steadier, stronger this year than last. Yea I am definately. That;s good, that's good. Your looking great, you look really well. Thank you. If (Recording stops)