CONNECTION NUMBER 014  

Transcriber: Erik Orta

3/11/18

Interviewer: Grace

Interviewee: ?

Interviewer: Hi I’m grace and I’m doing an interview for my Meadville, which is, they’re trying to determine what the community wants and what can make it better. This interview is going to be recorded.

Interviewer: First question. What do you love about the city of Meadville? 

R: I love all the community events like second Saturday where you can go and have fun with your friends or family, and I like all the locally owned shops such as creative crusts and tattered corners, and I like that there is not a lot of crime here so you don’t really have to worry about much, and I like all of the seasons. 

Interviewer: What’s your favorite memory of living in Meadville?

R: Um my favorite memory is in the summer I would go to the farmer’s market with my parents and then we'd go to creative crusts and get bread and we would have tons of fun. 

Interviewer: Why do you sta... Why do you stay in Meadville and what brought you here?

R: My dad got a job here and so we moved here and I stayed because of my parents.

Interviewer: What would make staying here easier?

R: Having more places to hang out with my friends and more places to shop at.

Interviewer: What things capture the spirit of our town?

R: The big zipper where all the people contributed pieces to it and all the road signs out by giant eagle.

Interviewer: What would you miss if Meadville wasn't here?

R: Um, creative crusts because I go there practically every weekend and its, you can just sit there and talk or you can like eat its its really nice.

Interviewer: What about Meadville is important to continue in the future?

R: Um, its important to continue community events and uh having low crime rate.

Interviewer: What would you change to make Meadville even better, or if you could have one wish for Meadville what would it be?

R: To have more shopping options like build a better mall or expand the downtown mall to have more places that teenagers would like to shop at like H&M or like forever 21 or Hollister, places like that. Um or like an arcade where teenagers could go to have fun or hangout with their friends.

Interviewer: Ok and thank you!

CONNECTION NUMBER 015

Transcriber: Erik Orta

3/11/18

Interviewer #1: Allegheny college student

Interviewer #2: Stephanie martin

Interviewer #3: ?

R #1: homer

R #2: ?

R #3: ?

R #1: Was it hard to find the place?

Interviewer #1: No were good, were good, thank you... Very comfortable... So um…

Interviewer #2: Thanks for, ya havin us over today.

Interviewer #1: Yes, um so may I ask this question um, what do you like about living in Meadville?

R #1: Uh I was born and raised here so I like it, you know. People ya know I get along with the people you know the ones I know, so............

R #1: Get you to your appointments if ya need to go to an appointment.

Interviewer #1: Mmhmmm.

R #1: Yup.

Interviewer #2: What do you like about the people?

R #1: Uh, they’re mostly, the ones I know are mostly friendly. Ya know everybody knows everybody around here. So its not really that big of a town, but, but everybody knows everybody, everybody gets along with everybody.

Interviewer #1: So what would you describe Mea... How would you describe Meadville?

R #1: Its a friendly little town like like a Mayberry.

Interviewer #1: Mmhmm.

R #1: Friendly nice people you know you have have have to ask any question any directions you get the right person and they’re show you right where it is.

Interviewer #1: That’s a good example um.  So may I ask what are your favorite things to do in Meadville.

R #1: Well since I lost my sight um, I don’t get around as much as I used to but me and my wife we got to meetings and stuff so. She should be back pretty soon um but I before I lost my sight I used to go play basketball play softball, just stuff around with people. Go to movies.

Interviewer #1: Mmhmm.

Interviewer #3: Can I ask how did you lose your sight?

R #1: Um I had um a disease called sarcoidosis and um it because came on my brain it went to my brain and um, it took my eye sight and my optic nerve.

Interviewer #3: Ahhh.

R #1: I was able to see before but then I think I’ve been blind four years now

Interviewer #3: Oh my goodness.

R #1: Yea it jus came jus got married and and it was going good and then all of a sudden it took my sight so.

Interviewer #3: And you played basketball before that?

R #1: Yea basketball, baseball, football.

Interviewer #3: Oh my goodness.

Interviewer #3: You miss those now?

R #1: Oh yea I definitely miss it.

Interviewer #3: Oh.

R #1: Yea runnin around with the fellas.

R #1: And now its like I you know I don’t watch it on TV, I listen to it.

Interviewer #3: Yea.

R #1: But I’m starting to get the hang of it ya know you just gotta take it day by day the best I can.

Interviewer #3: Sure.  Did you mention transportation?

R #1: Yea they they use like a... When I go to a meeting they’ll call me up and they’ll send somebody up they’ll call me tell me what time they’re gunna come and them they’ll come and get me.

Interviewer #3: Ok.

Interviewer #2: Is that keystone or CATA?

R #1: Um keystone.

*phone rings during interview gets answered

Interviewer #1: Ok is it ok if I continue?

Interviewer #3: Oh please I’m sorry. Yes!

Interviewer #1: No no no it ok. 

Interviewer #1: Um, are there things that you would improve Meadville and how so?

R #1: You was talkin to me?

Interviewer #1: Mmhmmm.

R #1: What did you say?

Interviewer #1: I said um I’m gunna rephrase the question. How would you improve Meadville?

*phone rings again and gets answered

R #1: How would I describe Meadville you sayin?

Interviewer #1: How would you improve Meadville.

Interviewer #2: What would make it easier for you to live here?

R #1: Oh. Being able to get around I mean I been here all my life so I know most of the things and sights and people and. Ya know I ride the cat bus every while before I was blind so I know where my stops are and everything so. Um just gettin around.

Interviewer #1: When you say getting around you mean do you mean transportation?

R #1: No well my wife has a car so uh with her and then the keystone line like if I have to go down to Pittsburgh to see my neurologist.  They’ll give us a ride down there. You know charges and then we'll pay them to take us down there. So it'd be easier if she don’t like to drive in the big city anyways so. It makes it much easier.

Interviewer #2: It does that’s very good.

Interviewer #3: What is your top wish for Meadville?

R #1: Um... Top wish. I wish just everybody could get along ya know. Ya know have that where you know....

*phone rings again

R #1: Yea everybody could get along.

*answers phone

R #1: But um yea I just wish people everybody could get along you know better.  Ya know with me not having my sight I see how things could be and how you are treated (pause) so.

Interviewer #2: Do you have a story about that when you, heard something that kind of struck you, and wished people would be nicer to each other?

R #1: Naw not really, I can’t say I really do. 'Cause I’m that I’m the type of person I get along with anybody so. Um. Naw I don’t have no story about that. 

R #1: Just growing up here was fun. Ya know, knowing everybody, seeing your friends, able to go over to their house, eat lunch or whatever.  Just Meadvilles a nice little old town. 

*mother-in-law waked in the house

Interviewer #2: So, when you were growing up here you said it was fun and you'd just go over to peoples houses, was there enough to do?

R #1: Yea we we found stuff to do you know, go up to Allegheny college, play up there and play basketball up there and stuff on their courts. Now its like you can’t really do it, you know. They don’t, we don’t have as much to do like we used to.

Interviewer #1: Can you describe more what do you mean by there’s not much to do like.

R #1: You know like kids now gettin out like we used to. There used to be baseball fields you used to be able to go to play baseball all day. Stuff like that.

Interviewer #3: How about up at the rec complex?

R #1: Ah ha yea that’s right up the street.

Interviewer #3: Up the street?

R #1: Yea.

Interviewer #3: Is is that an opportunity for kids?

R #1: Oh yea I guess it would be an opportunity I just ain’t been up there in so long. You know they got swimming in the rec and the ice skatin rink and the roller I think they got roller skating in the summertime.

Interviewer #2: They don’t anymore.

R #1: Oh they don’t. Oh ok see its how long its been.

Interviewer #2: They have a skateboard ramp though.

R #1: Oh do they?

Interviewer #2: A skateboard park.

R #1: Yea a skateboard park.

Interviewer #2: But no baseball fields, that would be nice.

R #1: Yea. It used to be one over that hill, where rat lake is. They call it rat lake.

Interviewer #2: Hmmm.

R #1: Yea we from Meadville too?

Interviewer #2: No but I’ve been here about 12 years now.

R #1: Oh ok

R #1: Yea you get a lot of opportunities if you know the right people. There’s a lot opportunities around here.

Interviewer #2: Such as.

R #1: As far s going to school. Ya know get a nice education. They got a good school system. Um (pause) 

Interviewer #2: Can you describe what type of things make Meadville feel like home?

R #1: Just, for me it be my friends, 'cause I got a lot of friends. And since I’ve been in this situation I ain’t been around I ain’t I’m not able to get out and and about as much as I used to it hard for me to, well I can’t see so, um

*wife walks in the house, short break in interview.

 

Interviewer #2: We had asked what makes Meadville feel like home.

R #2: I’ve lived here all my life, that’s why it feels like home

R #1: I told them Meadvilles a lot of friendly people around here.

R #2: Its just a nice quiet calm town, I, this is the best pace to raise your children. It really is!

Interviewer #1: How so to raise your children, because I heard that um from homer that there’s not much to do.

R #2: There isn’t much that’s one thing that Meadville needs to do is they need to get something for our teens our pre-teen adults. 

R #1: Keep them off the streets

R #2: There’s nothing for them to do to keep them off the streets. I remember when I was younger, they had up y-teens, they had um, arcade places, they had um…

R #1: The parks used to be open in the summertime

R #2: They used to have summer parks, children go to the summer park do crafts, games, they don’t have the no, Meadville don’t have any of that anymore, nothing. College kids used to even go to the parks, and up they did a lot of crafts and stuff with the kids. Um, I think the only thing exciting they have now is the churches get together, they have a little carnival down um…

R #1: Elm street.

R #2: Elm street.

R #1: Yea

R #2: And that’s more like um they do school supplies stuff for the children, the needy children, and then they do a little carnival along with it. I think that’s the only exciting thing Meadville has for out children.

The rec complex, but what about the children who are poor, their families are poor, how can they go and enjoy all the activities up at the rec complex. They have skating, roller skating, the pool, um um…

R #2: What are those skates called? Uh.. 

Interviewer #1: Ice skates?

R #2: No, the big long wood things...

Interviewer #1: Skateboards, they have a skateboard park.

R #2: Skate, they have skating board up there. But, you gotta have this to be able to get in and enjoy that. You know, I I think Meadville needs to concentrate more on our children.

R #1: How long have I been blind, about four years?

R #2: About five years.

R #1: Five years

R #2: Yea

R #1: Tell 'em you know I used to go to the basketball court the college and you know play basketball, baseball, used to have baseball fields, softball.

R #2: They wonder why the crime rate is getting high in Meadville, and it is, I mean I can remember when I was 15 years old I had a curfew at 10 o'clock and it was safe to be out, go to the movies walk downtown with friends. You used to be able to leave your doors open you know, I I mean we were a close community, and now its like, there’s...

R #1: I told them it was like Mayberry

R #2: Yea mmhmm yea almost like Mayberry, but now you've got a lot of people moving into Meadville um. A lot of Erie thugs shall I say come up here and so therefore they're robbing homes, um, drug trafficking, you know but that’s normal in any any community, but I just think Meadville need stuff for our children.

R #3: You never thought about drugs ago in Meadville.

R #2: No!!

R #3: But way back because they used to do they don’t do that. But now they’re out there on the street trying to bring people in. Kids in.

R #2: I I think that’s the only complaint I have in Meadville, because the hospitality is very nice for Meadville.

R #1: Yea that’s why I said it be like home.

R #2: Meadvilles beautiful, um…

R #1: Getting along with a lot of people.

R #2: Right, I I think that the main thing I don’t like about Meadville.

R #3: A long long lime ago they had a segregation, but now that they broke up the segregation, and now they’re hand in had you know, they don’t, there’s nothing wrong with a black and a white now because there’s no racial discrimination there.  Where before in the years back there was. A long time ago like back, back in the 60s and the...

R #2: But that was everywhere, that want just Meadville.

R #3: But then they got rid of it.

R #2: I think that my chief complaint in Meadville. Other than that I love Meadville. I don’t think id ever mover away.  Maybe if homer and I got old and we might want to travel somewhere, maybe try a southern state, if the funds ever became available for us. Um, but to wanna move somewhere now, I love Meadville its my home town.

R #1: Yea I would wanna be in Meadville you know the grandkids could get an education here.

R #2: Yea, there’s just nothing for children here, nothin. Nothin at all. I think that would be the biggest thing I would want Meadville to work on is something for our children.

Interviewer #2: Activities and...

R #2: Yea, I mean my god they used to have in the summer time, you could go to any park, you could go to Roshae park you could go up there to Shady Brook, Heidi Cooper, parks up by the school, a lot of parks, and  there ain’t hardly any parks anymore and um they like I said um Allegheny had a lot of their students that would open up the parks and they would just have crafts and games, and I used to have to go drag my children home because they would be up there and they didn’t wanna come home, you know. That’s my, I think that’s my biggest problem.

Interviewer #3: But the Allegheny students had, things... Crafts of whatever that they could participate in.

R #2: Yea I think Allegheny has done, Allegheny students has done a lot, for our children, um like that ramp um for say that ramp um Allegheny students come down and built that ramp for my husband. If it wasn't for them building that ramp, it took us a good 20 minutes to get homer out of the house. He was seriously ill then and um his mobility wasn’t good, and they had a play its called, what was that organization called?

R #3: I’m not quit sure I I can’t I can’t recall it

R #2: Um they help the handicapped and the elder you now if the elder needed a roof done the Allegheny students did that and...

R #1: Habitat for Humanity?

R #3: And they go in and they paint houses for people.

R #2: No...

Interviewer #3: Make a difference day?

R #2: Um I don’t know the name of it but they just they do, I, the only people that do a lot for our community is the Allegheny students, I must say if it wasn’t for the Allegheny students I, I, prop that I really prop it. 

Are you an Allegheny student?

Interviewer #1: Uh yea I’m an inco.. Incoming sophomore, rising sophomore.

R #2: Yup, it, I, I I prop all the students up there, I truly do. They built my ramp for my husband.

Interviewer #1: That’s very sweet.

R #2: And I sat here and don’t you know Meadville tribune was here too and I didn’t know, and I’m crying I was so overwhelmed because I’m like my god I can get my husband out of the house, he can leave with me we can go shopping together. There was times where...... 'Cause it was a burden to get him out of the house so…

*break in interview

R #2: Yea I think that’s my, that’s my main focus. If they could just do something for their children. I think it would keep them off the streets, I mean. I am assistant manager at Lil Cesar’s, so I come home very late at night and ill see, I would never let my children out, 9 and 10 year olds, if not younger just on the streets or over at country fair to get a drink before I come home…

R #1: And they don’t have no curfews now.

R #2: And you see all these young children and they just hang at country fair.

Interviewer #2: Gettin, lookin for trouble.

R #1: Yup.

R #2: Yea.

R #1: And they don’t have curfews. Do they... 

R #2: What’s that?

R #1: They don’t have curfews no more.

R #2: No they used to have curfews, they don’t.

R #2: It says "how might we improve the strength of our community?"

R #2: That’s a really hard answer. I don’t think we have a bad community. I don’t think our community is not strong, because if there is somebody in need I think, I mean, we all pull together, you know fires, floods. I don’t think there’s anything we have to improve on our community.

"if you were in control of the cities budget, what would you improve?"

R #2: I dunno.

R #3: A lot of older people are afraid to walk downtown. Nowadays compared to what it was last year.

R #2: Hmmm. I guess for your question where its says, "if you were in control of the cities budget, what would you improve?" I think again I think I would improve the funds for them to do stuff with our children. I can remember growing up....

R #1: Transportation

R #3: Yea but I, I also would improve the the more more for the sidewalks for the blind people too.

R #2: They’re doing that the...

R #3: The sidewalks are bad and uh they need more improvement. Because if I was disa.. I’m not disabled but I cant I wouldn’t be able to walk downtown I I got one of those jazzys, which I gotta get a battery for yea and....

R #2: Yea the sidewalks are bad.

R #3: I don’t think I could do that on the sidewalks with the jazzy ....

R #1: You gotta walk in the street.

R #3: They tried to take him downtown in the wheelchair....

R #2: Actually you’re right because I witness when I’m working at the store ill see a lot of elderlys driving their jazzys in the road so…

R #3: Yea because the sidewalks ain’t ain’t ain’t cape... Or ain’t good for them, jazzys or anything.

R #2: Yea we tried pushing him downtown in a wheelchair and its difficult

R #3: She couldn’t get it through the uh rough parts of its cement of the uh... Sidewalk

R #2: We had to pull him backwards.

R #3: And they, I think they need more room the sidewalks. For the blind and the elderly, I really do.

R #3: There’s a lot of stuff that they need to do that uh they... 

But if as far as the budget goes that one thing one of the things id put on the budget to for them to do.to make sure that the sidewalks are are uh fixed and able for the blind and the elderly to be able to walk down with out being able without having to fall.

Interviewer #3: Trip yea.

R #3: Yea it one thing the blinded have the the canes they have the ball; they wouldn’t be able to walk down there. Because the ball would get stuck in prolly one of these holes or ruts.

R #2: I think that’s the only thing I have a problem in in Meadville I’m not dishappy...

R #3: I’m not unhappy about Meadville, I like living here.

R #2: I love Meadville I love it here, um I just that’s the main thing if I were to be able to do somethin I would focus on something for children, especially poverty children, and we have a lot that here. We really do.

R #3: I want to focus on I want for the blind to...

R #2: Well yea, but I’m saying I want for children too mom, there’s a lot of them that hang on the streets and get in trouble and...

R #3: I know I know and its not good for them..

R #2: There’s nothing for them to do.

Interviewer #2: There’s a bad child poverty rate here actually, its like close to 50%. 

R #2: Really?

Interviewer #2: Yea.

R #1: Is that bad?

Interviewer #2: mmhmm.

R #2: It never used to be like that either, like I said you could leave your doors unlocked at night and go to bed and sleep sound and knowing....

R #3: I lock all my windows and doors.

R #2: Yea we lock our windows and doors, 'cause we were robbed down here, um someone, I don’t know ho they got in my daughter’s car, but they robbed here car. Actually my grandson was having a sleepover and they were all camping out front before the ramp was built, and they were all had their sleeping bags stuff on the porch and they were watching movies they fell asleep, and they heard a noise and they woke to some guy trying to break into my car. Um, so I I guess I would have to agree the crime rate is.

R #3: I’d be afraid to been outside.

R #2: I think that’s the only, problem I have with Meadville. That I I must prop and I don’t know where to go to prop you Allegheny students but you guys do a lot for our community.

R #1: Yea

R #2: Allegheny does do a lot for the community they really do. Many things. I can’t even think of all the stuff they do but.

Interviewer #2: One of the things that I run with the Allegheny students is the volunteering from tax assistance program at the public library.

R #2: That’s wonderful there too yea. You know what, you’re right, um, my brother goes every year and the the income tax Allegheny students help with income tax, do the income tax.

R #1: Yea at the library?

Interviewer #1: mmhmm.

Interviewer #2: mmhmm.

R #2: I really don’t have any more to add that’s...

Interviewer #1: That’s great... Its a lot we appreciate it, helps us.

Interviewer #3: Very much thank you!

Interviewer #2: Thank you very much!

R #2: So make that if you can make that your high priority for the children id voice my opinion many times, id even did in the paper you know where you can talk you opinion, and I’ve done that you know we need more stuff for children to do. I mean my grandchildren are all grown up now but we have younger generation...

R #3: Your grandchildren ain’t all grown up.

R #2: Well they’re…

R #3: Antwon ain’t and neither is Devante.

R #2: No I’m talking about the ones that aren’t hanging on the street that have are able to go out by themselves and be able to do something.

R #3: Right.

R #2: The little ones cant, but that’s my main focus I would wanna say is for the children.

Interviewer #2: And I think that one of the good things that I think is gunna come out of this project is um, we’ve heard a lot about reestablishing parks as safe zones and having activities there and making them welcome public spaces again.

R #1: Mmhmm.

Interviewer #2: Um, because, uh from stories a lot like what you shared and I think that that’s one thing that its hard for the city to spend money on because people think of green space as useless right as this luxury or fluff and we have more important pressing needs, but if that’s really what’s gunna hold our community together, than that should be our priority.

R #2: Yea and what about, out summer days um when they used to have the sidewalk sales downtown. I mean, we we’ve got businesses.

R #3: There ain’t no down town anymore.

R #2: We do have businesses downtown.

R #3: Not a whole lot.

R #2: They used to all get together and and it would just be you’d look forward that it would be the whole weekend and they would have a little carnival and stuff like that down there, um, and I cant remember what it was called, but it was always in, august…

R #2: They had the diamond park closed off for our teens and had bands going up there and the kids were able to dance and enjoy the band up there.  They don’t do that anymore, you don’t see no downtown sidewalks anymore, no carnivals downtown…

R #1: Nothin.

R #2: Nothin. Sometimes you wonder if Meadvilles becoming a ghost town…

CONNECTION NUMBER 016

Transcriber: Erik Orta

3/11/18

Interviewer: Kathy Lee

R: Chelsea Lee Tucker

January 19th, 2018

Interviewer: So what do you love about the city of Meadville?

R: Um, it its a place where you can get help for mental illness.

(pause)

R: And they also give you shelter for homelessness.

(pause)

R: Um, I think that’s about it.

Interviewer: What’s your, do you have a favorite memory of living in Meadville? Have you lived in Meadville very long?

R: No, just since before Christmas for like two days.

Interviewer: Ok. So um, so. You're gunna be staying in Meadville foe a while?

R: I think so yea.

Interviewer: Ok and why it says would you why what do you like about Meadville that would make you stay here?

R: Um, the help.

Interviewer: Anything that you like about the town in particular?

R: Mmmm, the people.

Interviewer: Tell me what you like about the people.

R: They’re nice.

Interviewer: Anything else about the people?

R: Um

(pause)

R: No nothing.

Interviewer: Where are some place that you go in town that you really like?

R: CVS, Walgreens, uh, the mall.

Interviewer: The downtown mall?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: I guess that’s all there is, huh.

R: Yea

(pause)

R: And um the read program.

Interviewer: And where is that located?

R: Hush. I’m not quite sure.

Interviewer: Is it downtown still?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: And you like, you're going there now to learn to read?

R: I want go there.

Interviewer: Oh you wanna go there?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: I’ve heard its a good program.

R: It is. I want to um read better, do math better, do social studies and science better.

Interviewer: What do you think doing those things better is gunna help you in your life?

R: It will help me pass exam like the SATs and the uh exam to get into college.

Interviewer: What do you wanna go when you go to college?

R: I’m thinking about going for CNA to help be an RN.

Interviewer: Like helping people?

R: Mmhmm

Interviewer: Tell me about that.

R: Well, um, I saved two people in my lifetime, and I liked doing it so...

Interviewer: How did you save them?

R: Well my sister was drowning in a swimming pool. Uh, this guy I brought home ended up with a car that fell on top of him...

Interviewer: And you were there to help.

R: Mmhmm

Interviewer: It made you feel good right?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: Oh that’s great.

Interviewer: So you're hoping that the help you're getting now is going to help you then get to the read program, and be able to do those things.  Its really great.

Interviewer: I know you're kind of new around town, but is there anything when you think of Meadville you kinda think about. People or places or things, kind of jump out at you as, being important?

R: Um, they help you to learn how to live independently.

Interviewer: So the, the services that you’re getting here from chaps are helping you do those things.

R: Mmhmm

Interviewer: What do you think you would miss in Meadville if is wasn’t here anymore?

R: The help.

Interviewer: Kind of an obvious one huh?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: And um. Let me turn my page here. And what about Meadville is important to continue into the future? Probably.

R: Um

(pause)

R: Um, learning to live independently.

(pause)

Interviewer: If you could change one thing about Meadville what would you change, to make it better?

R: The confusion of walking around.

(both laughing)

Interviewer: Ya haven't quite figured it out yet, huh?

R: No.

Interviewer: What do you think would help you not be so confused?

R: Having somebody who can walk around with me.

Interviewer: If I gave you a magic wand and I said you can make one wish today for Meadville, what would your wish be?

R: Everything being in like the same block.

(both laughing)

Interviewer: You would wish it was a little easier to get around, huh?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: Is there anything else that you would like to tell me about Meadville? 

R: Um. I made some good friends here.

Interviewer: You've made some good friends?

R: Yea.

Interviewer: Anything else?

R: Um no that’s it.

Interviewer: Well thank you very much, I appreciate your time.

R: Yup.