 What do you love about the City of Meaville?

R: Meadville is my home and where my family is located. Meadville is the most special place in the world to me. The question is sot of asking “Why do you love your children?” It’s mostly intangible. It’s a deep feeling. A character in the motion picture Field of Dreams summed it up best: “When a place touches you like this, the wind never blows so cold again. You feel for it, like it’s your child.”

What matters to you most about living here?

R: I don’t have one favorite memory...my life has too many to name. My fondest memories all involve being with others...in the neighborhoods, in school, downtown...events in Diamond Park, sidewalk sales, movies, festivals, people on the streets and in the stores every night of the week, but especially on Friday nights, teaching my own children the value of a small community with a big warm heart.

What is your favorite memory of living in Meadville?

R: I was born and raised in Meadville. I made a conscious choice to come back after college because it mattered more to me to be here than it did what I would be doing here. I bought a business that I knew and never ever thought about leaving. Even when I eventually retire, I will stay in Meadville.

Why do you stay in what brought you to Meadville?

R: More viable retail downtown. A men’s clothing store. A true department store. Not a Wal Mart. More varied restaurants. Being able to buy the majority of needed goods and service downtown. But for that to happen, you need to change the way people think.

What would make staying here easier?

R: Our desire to help each other. At our very core, we are filled with people who reach out to help others in need. Parades and gatherings downtown...A memorial Day observance that attracts hundreds of people and concerts in Diamond Park. Small town America at it’s best. Small independent business which add character and flavor to our town.

What things capture the spirit of our town?

R: Diamond Park. Market House. It’s not one thing, Meadville isn’t one thing. Meadville is a collection of churches, stores, offices, arts, people who make them all thrive.

What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn’t here? What, if it were gone, would make Meadville seem like not Meadville anymore. 

What about Meadville is important to continue into the future?

R: Our sense of history and place of time. You can not move forward without understanding the history which brought you to where you are now. 

The sense of community and the importance of everyone person plays a role in making that community strong, vibrant, eclectic.

R: How the community is a whole, and how everyone works together to make it better. And how nobody is left out in our community, everybody is friends with everybody.

What would you change to make Meadville even better? Or,if you have one wish for Meadville, what would it be?

R: For citizens of Meadville to believe in Meadville and each other more. Most every problem we face as a community can be solved with talents of those who are already here. It’s not enough to just want Meadville to be better. We must put our resources and hard work into what we value and not wait for someone close to do it.