KL006

Kathy Lee

Robert Smith_live in Meadville since 2003

What do you really like or love about Meadville? 

R: Well, it has a lot close by so that you don't have to do too much driving around. Um that's all I can think of. 

Do you have a favorite thing about Meadville or something that you really like a lot? 

R: Um I don't really know this town all that well - because I'm originally from Albion area and I've always lived out in the country and this is really the only time I spent in a bigger town in my whole entire life, so I don't know much about this town. 

So what brought you to Meadville? 

R: It was family situation that I kind of don't really want to get into. 

OK that's fine, that's fine.

When you think of Meadville, what really captures the spirit of Meadville

R: Well, the town mainly, back in the 80s, because my grandparents were farmers, so we used to bring our grains and wool to the old feed mill and stuff, so I always been on the cultural farming part of the history, it was right where the farm and garden is. 

Down across the train tracks? 

Yeah

Oh, okay, and your grandparents would bring things there to sell? 

R: Mainly wool from the sheep - we pretty much had a beef farm.

Anything else that kind of captures the spirit. 

I don't know too much of the history of this town even though most of my family is originally from here - all I know is what I've been told by my dad and other family members, besides that I don't know much. 

What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't here? 

R: That's a hard one because I don't really know the town or things like that.

Is there a restaurant or a store, or a service, or people, places?

Actually, I really like the Firehouse

The Firehouse Grille? 

R: I am pretty much a regular there during the summer time.

You go down and hang out at night and have some fund down there? 

Yeah. 

What do you think is important for Meadville to continue into the future? 

R: Like old town - sticking to their roots, sticking to tradition, remembering and learning from the past to try to make things better for the future and the present. 

So what do you think they can learn from the past, the important lesson? 

Well, it depends on what you're looking at, because each thing would have to be looked at in a big general picture. So, see for the spiritual there's where that thing, well, remember and think and reorganize and come back to it - until you get a solid thing that can hold its own. 

So you would really need to look at the past.

Yeah.

R: Figure out what worked and what didn't so that you could make sure that was still there for the future. 

Yeah, you could pretty much, it's like how you would do forgiving and forgetting - you forgive someone for doing wrong by you, but you remember it so if you run into that situation again, you already know this doesn't work - we have to come up with plan B or C to get through it. 

So, what i hear you saying is to not repeat the things that didn't work in the past. 

Yeah

What would you change to make Meadville even better? 

R: Hmmm, I really don't have any comment.

You can't think of just one thing we could change? 

Let's just say that my laundry list would be pretty big and would take more than one interview. 

Can you give me your top 3? 

R: Personally, I would start with, um, getting more police and do, try to get another volunteer fire department because -nothing against the guys that get paid, but I used to work on a volunteer fire department and I don't agree with people that get paid for it.  

So more volunteer fire departments?  

Yeah

How about number 2? 

R: More awareness of what is going on, like more neighborhood watches and stuff - because if people are made aware of what is going on, then we don't have to sit there and, uh, wonder why the cops are letting this or that happen - because I been bothered by the cops quite a few times.  Like I'm walking down the street, and you know how some people look like others and they stop you on the street corner - I had that done more times than not and it drives me completely batty, but on the other hand, they're only trying to do their jobs, but I just don't like being bothered when I know that I haven't really done anything wrong- but I'll just cooperate because I know that its what they have to do. 

That must be difficult

Well, I've done a lot of difficult things in my life, and I've seen a lot of heartache, but a lot of good things too. Being a member of a fire department - it's kind of hard to explain to people that haven't been there or done it 

It's hard to see sometimes? 

R: Yeah, and you try to explain it, and if they haven't been there and done, they might have their idea - but you know what the truth is, and trying to explain the truth to an outsider is extremely hard.  

Anything else you have to share about Meadville. 

Nope

Well, Thank you for your time.