KL002

Kathy Lee

Chelsea Tucker

Release Yes

I:  January 19, 2017: What do you love about Meadville?

R: Its a place where you can get help for mental illness. And they also give you shelter if you need it. Um, I think that's about it.

I: Do you have a favorite memory of Meadville, have you lived in Meadville very long?

R: No, just since two days before Christmas.

I: So, you're gonna be staying in Meadville for awhile? 

R: Yes

I: What do you like about Meadville that would make you stay here? 

R: The help - mmm, The people, they're nice. Um, 

I: Where are some places that you go in town that you really like? 

R: CVS, Walgreens, uh, the Mall - and uh, the READ program

I: And you're going there now to learn to read? 

R: I want to go there, yeah - its a good program and I wanna read better, do math better - do social studies and science better. 

I: What do you think doing those things better is gonna help you in your life?

R: It'll help me pass exams, like the SATs and the exam to get in to college. I am thinking about going for CNA to help me and to help

I: You like helping people? Tell me about that.

R: Um, well, I saved two people in my lifetime and I liked doing it

I: How did you save them? 

R: Well, my sister was with this guy and a car fell on top of him

I: And you were there to help - that's great - So, you hope that the help that you're getting now is going to help you get to the READ program and help you get to do those things? That's great. I know you are kind of new around town, but is there anything when you think about Meadville you think of specific people or places or things that are important.

R: They help you to learn how to live independently

I: So the services you are getting from CHAPS are helping to learn to live independently? That's Great. What are the things that you think you would miss in Meadville if it wasn't here anymore?

R: The help. 

I: Kind of an obvious one...What is important about Meadville to continue into the future. 

R: Learning to live independently

I: If you could change one thing about Meadville to make it better what would you change? 

R: uh, the confusion of walking around, giggles

I: What do you think would help you not be so confused? 

R: Having somebody who can walk around with me

I: If I gave you a magic wand and I said you could make one wish today for Meadville, what would it be? 

R: Everything being on the same block and easier to get around

I: is there anything else that you would like to tell me about Meadville? 

R: um, I made some good friends here - yeah, 

I: anything else? 

R: um, no that's it. 