My name is Paige Tucker and today I will be interviewing you for My Meadville. My Meadville is an organization which is trying to determine what the people in the community want and how we can make the community better.  You will be recorded today for the purpose of the interview.  

Paige=interviewer

interviewer:  Are you ready to begin.

R: Yes

interviewer:  Ok what do you love about the City of Meadville?

R: Big town feel. Small town living.

Interviewer.  Could you elaborate on some specific aspects of that?

R: It provides me with all the services that I need because its big enough population wise but small enough that I don't have to worry about not knowing my neighbors personally.

Interviewer:  What are some services that you get here in Meadville?

R: 24 hour shopping.

Interviewer:  OK. Any other examples of services that you are provided because of the population of the town?

R: Ah Full-time fire department, full time police department.  None of its volunteer.

Interviewer:  OK.  What matters to you most about living here?

R: Low crime.

Interviewer:  Ok... and what is your favorite memory of living in Meadville?

R: Pause…  I don't know if I have a favorite memory.

Interviewer:  Any memory of something you enjoy doing in Meadville?

R: I like going to the downtown Meadville Days in the summer whatever they're called.

Interviewer.  Yeah.  What brought you to Meadville?

R: My job.  

 Interviewer:  Can I ask where you work:

R: I work for Warner Kline Machine out of Erie Pennsylvania.  I transferred down here because the person running the Crawford County Office, um, got a much better job so I was able to jump up the company ladder, really fast really far simply by taking the position in Crawford County rather than staying in the city of Erie.

Interviewer:  Ok. Why do you stay in Meadville?

R: Relatively cheap housing, low cost of living.  Again, small town feel with bigger town amenities.

Interviewer:  What for you would make staying here easier?

R: A local government that doesn't make it difficult to live here with erroneous statutes, laws and taxes.  That’s what would make it easier.

Interviewer:  Could you give an example of one of those statutes, laws or taxes?

R: Yes, I don't want to have to get a permit to put my own hot water tank in my own house.  I don't want the city government looking over my shoulder on everything I do on my private property. 

Interviewer:  Ok is there any other examples of these laws and statutes that affect you?

R: No not really. Um…  I would hope that being a smaller town that they wouldn't create laws in a politically correct vein just to satisfy their image.  

Interviewer:  Ok.  What things capture the spirit of our town?

R: What things?

Interviewer. Yes.

R: Channel Lock.  This is a worldwide famous brand.  I can go anywhere in this country and say the word Channel Lock and everybody knows what I'm talking about and that’s all here. 

Interviewer:  Ok.   What would you miss if Meadville were not here?

R: What would I miss?

Interviewer:  Yes.  What is something in Meadville that would kind of defines Meadville or make Meadville seem like it is not Meadville anymore if it were gone.

R: Channel Lock

Interviewer:  Ok.  Do you have any other examples of things?

R: Ah, most of the tool and dye industry.  If that all went aware it would drastically alter the tone of Meadville.  The manufacturing base here, the design base.

Interviewer.  Ok.  What about Meadville is important to continue into the future.

R: Umm, to attract more manufacturing and maybe less service oriented jobs.  

Interviewer:  Ok.  What do you want your children or grandchildren to experience when they grow up? 

R: Um, self-reliance, self-sufficiency.

Interviewer:  is there something specific to Meadville that you would like your children or grandchildren to experience growing up.

R: I would like them to have and experience a good education.   Primary education.

Interviewer:  Do you feel that Meadville provides a good primary education?

R: I would say they provide a good, I wouldn't say they provide an excellent or outstanding, its good.

Interviewer:  Do you have any ideas for making this education more excellent or better?

R: Um, allocating resources to students can actually benefit from it.

Interviewer:  Do you have any like examples of programs in the school that need more resources?  

R: The gifted program, the trades program.  the college preporatory programs.  Those need more attention.  Those need more money.

Interviewer:  Ok.  What would you change to make Meadville even better? 

R: The weather

Interviewer:  Is there, Ok.  Is there anything that WE could change to make Meadville better?  Anything in the control of the people in Meadville that we could change to make it better?

R: Do you mean, I don't know, Meadville's Government to make it better? Or...

Interviewer:  Anything about Meadville, or I could rephrase it as, if you could have one wish for Meadville what would it be?

R: That they spend their tax revenue wisely and not on silly things. 

Interviewer:  Do you have an example of silly thing? And a wise thing?

R: Yes.  A silly thing would be putting those ridiculous flags up on Smock Bridge, at a cost of whatever they are, I’m surely they roughly cost $150.00 a piece.  I would much rather have Liberty Street paved.

Interviewer:  Ok.  And that concludes our My Meadville interview and I: am going to ask you to fill out this demographic sheet.