CONNECTIONNUMBER002

Ewan Malenfant

1/29/18

Interviewee: R

Interviewer: Alright, so… um, can you tell me something about, ah, the city of Meadville that happens here regularly or has just happened before that makes you really love living here?

R: One thing? Laughs. My name is R Kedzierski laughs, umm, oh gosh, umm one thing is tough, and I…

Interviewer: This isn’t your only chance you can talk about many things.

R: interrupting I know I know

R: I know, and I, um, and I also feel like I have different experiences because of having grown up here and then having been away and having come back.

Interviewer: uh huh

R: So I have um, um, maybe that has evolved and I think about my childhood differently than I think about things now. Um, I think, for an event in meadville that I think of is the parade, I would always consider the parade as the one event that brings out everybody in Meadville.

Interviewer: uh huh, the halloween parade?

R: The halloween parade yes um, and, the fact um, that it's been a staple, it's always been around, um, you can count on, you know, the people, the different groups or certain groups, certain different groups that are the same every time, and um, how’ll they’ll be some changes each year but it's... you... it’s just something you can count on laughs. 

Interviewer: yeah

R: Um, and just a lot of things in meadville like when they changed the route because of the North St. construction, people freaked out and then freaked out that it didn’t move back, um, I think that kinda stuff makes me think, or, I mean that's what I think is the definition of what Meadville um, or makes me feel pause, um, yeah something that’s unique to me to Meadville uh, I think that’s different. Yeah. What was what was the indiscernible that we touched again laughs 

Interviewer: So that’s something that happens here that’s something you love about it. So, so is that why you love it cause it’s unique?

R: Yeah and that its consistent I mean I think a lot of the people that have been here a  long time and that don’t like change you know or whatever those things that are consistent are the quintessential little things and, for the people that were gone a while and then come back, when they first look at say downtown chestnut st. you’re like oh everything is different and then you look again and you’re like oh this is the same and this is the same and then, um, and I think that’s um, one of the good things that you can, you can see and that there are certain things that don’t change and make you feel at home. Yeah. Laughs

Interviewer: So you said that you uh, you left and came back to Meadville, can you talk a little more about that maybe why you left and what brought you back?

R: Sure. So um, well i left first when I went to college but I um, did my undergrad in Erie at Penn State. So I didn’t, you know I still came home and all that but when I went to grad school I went to Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, and clears throat stayed there after I got my degree and started a family down there, um, but my husbands from Erie so we have been, probably even before we had our kids were looking to come back to the area, me not ever thinking it would be meadville because I didn't think we would ever find jobs here. Um, and, I didn’t think I would really want to live in Erie I don’t prefer Erie having went to school there and my husband probably wouldn't like living in Erie but uh, my feel of Erie was not, um, where I wanted to live and same… I was almost, I was resigning to maybe looking for jobs in Pittsburgh um, just cause I knew It was a bigger city near here but I also didn’t, Richmond was a kinda big city, and we didn’t really wanna live in a big city, um, so we looked for a long time to come back here and, and I had some things that I interviewed for near here that didn’t work out, and I look back and I think thank goodness um laughs but then, um what actually brought us back, um were the connections that we had and our jobs there I was in um, for a while I was in environmental consulting but then I was working for the state of Virginia doing wetland and stream permitting um, and I found that everyone, when I eventually somehow got a ernst seed catalogue everybody that was doing wetland and stream restoration were buying seeds from ernst, and one day I finally turned the catalogue over and saw their address because I didn’t know anything about them before I left and saw that it was in Meadville, and then at the time my husband had um, worked for the Virginia state seed lab, um, and was also working at the Virginia State University seed resorch, search station, and, so he had a background in seeds, and uh, so I saw this and said, I had been the one looking for a job cause I was the one with a master’s degree so I saw this and I said, you need to apply at this ernst place, um, then, it was just, like, it was meant to be almost I mean weird, I don’t believe in that weird connection stuff but it definitely happened for us when we came, home um,  for a visit we dropped off our resume and on the way back he got a call saying how’d you know we had an opening we would love to have you come for an interview and, um, so I think he dropped his resume off in January and was working in May. And then once I knew we were moving back here I just looked up who was the, um, chair of Environmental Science at Allegheny College just to meet with him to talk about opportunities there cause I knew some cause I had interned at the DEP when I was in college.

Interviewer: interrupting  oh yeah

R: so I kinda assumed I would work somewhere like DEP so it was Jim Palmer at Allegheny and he gave me lots of places to check into and then he said I have this thing called Creek Connections and the person who’s running it for me is looking to go back to get her master’s so if it becomes available I’ll let you know uh, so we moved in May. In September I started working for creek connections. And I’m still in awe of the fact that we both found jobs in our fields in Meadville. And we’re still, however many years later, laughs, 12 or 13 years later still employed. Laughs. 

Interviewer: Yeah right.

R: Cause I never would have thought that we would both find something right here, so… and I, I had no hesitation to come back, um, at all. My parents were here his parents were in Erie so we were the only ones from both of our families to move far away, even though  7 hours isn't really that far laughs. And then our kids were 2 and 4 at the time um, so that was really important that we come back.

Interviewer: So you feel like there probably weren't a lot of jobs is that your, you trails off

R: Yeah my perception looked, when I was looking after finishing up my master’s degree was that, it wasn’t gonna be worth my time to look specifically in Meadville because there weren’t gonna be a lot of job opportunities.

Interviewer: Uh huh. So would you say the same feeling was as you left as when you came back in terms of jobs? 

R: Yeah. Yeah, I think um, at least my perception as a person having grown up in Meadville, and probably I guess my family’s experience was that things took the turn for the worse and in the 80s, my parents both worked for the railroad, so when the railroad went down, that extremely affected our family, and um, my mom was able to find other jobs after that but she was younger than my dad and my dad struggled until his retirement to find a job and, a job that he liked and wanted to stay in, um, so I think from mid 80s, to the time that I left that would, uh, yeah. I thought it was not looking good...

Interviewer: Yeah

R: to have a career here. 

Interviewer: And do you still think that’s true now?

R: sighs I think it’s hard. I think it’s hard and and I th… I know, I know the students that work for me at Creek Connections if they, you know we do… they know I’m not leavin’ my job. Laughs I’m not movin’ aside so someone else can take my position um, so the people that are here and have really cool jobs and that love em, they’re not leavin’ um, and, unless… you know it depends on the sector that they’re in you know if it’s not growing, if they’re do everything they can to keep going as it is already and they’re not growing, um there’s not continual opportunities for someone, yeah, um, so I think it is, and it’s, i think it’s also different when you are versus if you live somewhere else and were looking here um, to be able to, explore the opportunities and talk to people cause I think making connections, with people, is important in anybody’s career but, um, in Meadville you find that everybody knows certain, you know there’ certain people that know everybody and if you can get in and talk to just the right person and they would know, oh yeah we can get you in this… interviewer interrupts  yeah. If you can’t get around and make those connections, or if you don’t have the ability you know to, you might not ever know if that’s something that would be open.

Interviewer: What do you think it takes to make those connections?

R: laughs And I, that’s another thing I always laugh about when I talk to um, especially the college students, um, cause I’ve never thought of myself as a people person, um, and you always here, interviewer interrupts, R laughs right, one of the creepers, laughs Um, that you know it’s networking, knowing the right people to get places and, it really, that exactly, that exact thing has worked out for me, and I feel like it’s been luck, I’m, I’m sure it’s not all luck but it feels like it’s been luck in how things have worked out.  Um...um, like when I was… my very first job after getting my master’s was um, at an environmental consulting firm where my, my thesis advisor at the school, his wife worked at the environmental consulting firm that hired me, so it was like, majorly direct connection there. Laughs. And then she went to um, work for the state and that's when I followed her to become a permit writer, and then when I decided I wanted to come here, um, it ended up when I started talking to Jim Palmer at Allegheny College that he went to school at University of Pennsylvania with my boss in Virginia. So that crazy stuff that you would never guess, and would never have been able to plan on, can happen. So you know, she knew that I was hard worker, cause I’m not a people person or I don’t think of myself as a people person, is to just be a hard worker um, and hope that that, um gets… communicates for me.

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: Um, so the fact that she personally knew him I know helped me and he was able to say when I came in what a hard worker I am, you know just like crazy weird connections that happen um… cause it… that I had applied to other you know there were other things that I applied to here once we were moving here and nothing else worked out so, yeah just, trying to network as much as you can. You know like in Meadville going to events, it's so easy to talk to people li when uh, like the community events that we have I think it makes it easy to get out and see who are the people who are community oriented people and to talk to them um, I think the events that we have here make it easy to make that happen but, you got make that step, getting out there and attending. 

Interviewer: What do you think would make staying here easier for you?

R: pause Um, there’s still... you know my first… when you first move somewhere you notice things or, there’s things you wanna change more than after you lived here, however many years again, um, but I know that I noticed when I first moved and had little kids move that um, the indoor play spaces for kids um, is lacking here um... and given our climate here, we should have more indoor play opportunities laughs. Cause you know where we came from in Virginia it’s nice a lot more of the time um, almost everyone of the fast food places have an indoor play space and it’s very rare here um… um and now that I have teenagers they’re struggling to find summer work and part time work that they want to, that they, they’re much pickier than I was as a teenager laughing. But I’m also realizing some of the rules that have changed for working as a teenager compared to when I was a teenager and they're struggling, um… struggling for a place to work and for things to do um, uh, um… they, but again they’re picky about everything, they’re not, when there’s opportunities to go do certain events they’re like oh I can’t do that cause that’s you know that’s not my group of people or whatever. Um, but I know when I was growing up here there was a big dance club that was open um, I, I feel like it was a figment of my imagination because not a lot of people remember that there was a indoor putt putt place on Chestnut St. at some point.

Interviewer: Oh Really?

R: Yes.

Interviewer: Where was it?

R: laughs Somewhere up by Jack’s pharmacy, Ieeah, swear I didn’t do drugs so I wasn’t in there laughs not making it up completely.

Interviewer:  Where was the dance club?

R: That was where, it’s, you know it’s had different owners. It was called Razzi’s, It’s had different names it was the Hat or, Top Hat or something. It’s down stairs by the, whatever, I don’t know the bar names, laughs, it just seemed like there were different things and then you know when I was a teenager was when cruising was a thing, and that would never be a thing again, uh, 

Interviewer: I’ve heard a lot of people mention that actually.

R: Yeah, I know there’s a group of people trying to bring it back. Gas costs to much these days to make it laughs. And that was our that was our social media I mean, if you wanna see people, and find out where parties were that’s where you went, you don’t have to do that anymore laughs 

Interviewer: What do you think your kids are looking to do?

R: Um

Interviewer: Like either a job or school or something. 

R: I think they… I think they want, like the coffee shop here is for us, they need a place that they don’t have to spend a lot, like I know they go to the movies a lot and they, lament the fact that it costs money, a lot of money sometimes, to go to the movies um, and they sometime do things like bowling or putt putt, um, but something that’s not so money centered 

Interviewer: Yeah

R: Um, I don’t know what it is, I don’t think they know what it is either laughs.

Interviewer: Yeah

R: Yeah and like the job, for the jobs all I know is that they don’t want, cause I keep telling them where they need to go um, but even, like my 15 year old is very gung ho to get a job, my 17 year old not so much, but the 15 year old keeps getting told you have to be 16, sometimes the 17 year old gets told you have to be 18, uh… and then a lot of, because Meadville has a lot of the smaller mom and pop front places, you know they’re not getting a lot of profit so they're hiring their friends and family instead of hiring the teenagers that they don’t know um, some places that they like and would want to work for really, they wouldn’t necessarily even have the chance um, pause Cause they have to uh, yeah, just yesterday we went somewhere and my youngest was told you need to be 16 and she said well you need to work somewhere under the table, it’s like you have to know people laughs it’s like don’t tell her that laughs. But they both babysit and that’s it. The one that’s pet sitting is making a lot more money than the one that’s babysitting. Laughs

Interviewer: Oh i’m sure people love their pets

R: People care about their dog more than their kids. Laughs Sometimes. Laughs  Kids are already too expensive laughs. 

Interviewer: I think there needs to be a single mom babysitter around here, like someone whos specializes in kids with single moms right? Right? Yeah?

R: laughs Well I think it's also, well that and also, people don’t value childcare,

Interviewer: Yeah 

R:  they don’t wanna pay, they don’t wanna pay for what the value of it is which should be really important. 

Interviewer: Yeah especially like preschools and stuff those people should be making a lot of money.

R: mm hm, mm hm, I think so too. 

Interviewer: What do you, what matters to you about living here?

R: What matters to me um… Obviously I really love that we have the creech um, easy and immediate access to really cool nature areas um, I think one of the things that really bothers people but doesn’t bother me is shopping stuff, cause I am not, a shopper. So yeah if I’m up in erie I’ll stop in at Target, because it’s fun and beautiful and I spend too much money, but that’s not, how I recreate, and so I don’t feel the need to have that stuff right here. Um, yeah I think it’s crazy when like, we’re in the coffee shop right now and people are still saying that we need Starbucks… we don’t need Starbucks laughs Yeah. 

Interviewer: Why don’t we need Starbucks?

R: Sighs… well because that, makes it the same as everybody else laughs. I like that we have little unique things. When we lived in the big, when we lived in Richmond and we would have family come it would kill me when they’d say let's go to Olive Garden, I would never, not go to Olive Garden, I will not take you to Olive Garden!

Interviewer: Yeah, right. 

R: You can go to Olive Garden anywhere, we live here now we can take you to the places that are local. 

Interviewer: uh huh.

R: I mean the chain places are good for, at the 79 interchange, we don’t need em… here.

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: um, I don’t know there are certain things that would be nice if they were a little closer, but we're, I don’t know. We’re fine laughs. I think it’s better to have uniqueness um, I think um… that we definitely saw an impact of when Walmart came in and um, how it changed the stores around here but like now I, I hate the Dollar Generals. I’m a… I think Dollar General is the new evil.  They they’re they’re the size of our mom and pop places but, people think things are cheaper there and, they’re not and… they’re ugly… I don’t like them. Laughs. So yeah those kinda things drive me nuts um…

Interviewer: I just saw one like, popped in or popped like, on the way like around Guy’s Mills.

R: There’s one every, every little town now has one now

Interviewer: yeah

R: yeah and they’re running out...

Interviewer: Came up in like, a month or two.

R: Probably laughs

Interviewer: Must be nuts.

R: And I think that’s the new place that are running out the remaining mom and pop places, and i think that’s horrible. Um… but… and I like, yeah I like, what I like about Mead, for the area that we are in for the county we have everything other you know we have the most services and the best stuff and accessibility to things um, and we’re really close to all that nature recreating um, I mean that’s why I think Meadville is the bes, I mean we’re not far from big cities, if you want to visit I think that's a part of what makes the idea... we have a small town, unique feel here but we're not... it doesn't make it so inaccessible to other places that have other things.

Interviewer: If, there was something that was pulled out of like a place or a person or, even like a feeling and it wouldn't be Meadville anymore to you, if there is something that comes to mind?

R: French creek laughs for sure, for sure french creek. Um... yeah I think Allegheny College obviously Allegheny College. Um... pause yeah and I think it i mean it's just the way that Meadville's been, I mean there's different groups of people like you know the fact that we had three catholic churches in Meadville, people looking at it now you know that's totally insane. And it was, it is, but you know the fact that we have you know indiscernible, peaches you have German people that influence, you have Italian people, like you know, we have Irish people and now it's not, it doesn't seem as separated now and it's um... people are more together about that kinda stuff um, but I don't know just looking back, and thinking how there were these culture knit communities based around whatever their origin or there different cultures... I think it's you know still lingering in Meadville still interesting um... I know it also makes it um... some of the things also like the... people who own a lot of land in the area or own a lot of the businesses have always been the same people, and so that makes it may be inaccessible for people who want to do that kinda thing. Um... but I think that's what, the history of that, is what  also makes Meadville the feel of it, I don't know. Uh there's certain families that were charitable and would give to the community um, things like the rec complex or the library or whatever and made it what it is.

Interviewer: Do you know much about the sort of like what brought the catholic churches together?

R: No I grew up at St. Agatha's but... no laughs but not anymore laughs. yeah my moms family was, grew up in that. 

interviewer: Yeah. And um, in terms of, so you mentioned french creek an Allegheny first, why did those come to mind?

R: Uh... just, part of my work now, that's what I feel really close to um... uh, and again like the history I think, uh, french creek is why we're here, um... and the col, I think the college brings a lot to the, I think without the college, everyone, especially now without the college there would be a lot lacking in the way of culture and influx of new people and new ideas um... keep the city going progressive into the future um, yeah. I know that um, I think that, certainly in the time that I've been here um, probably, certainly began before that um Allegheny was thought of as real separate from the city and it's not I think anymore I think there's probably some people that still feel that way but um, I think there's really been an effort to become part of the community not um, not separate and not telling the community what they should be doing um, uh, yeah if,if, the college wasn't here I can't imagine where laughs I would think it would be a lot different... I would maybe give up hope for staying, living in Meadville if the college wasn't here. 

Interviewer: What do you think are some of the things that are important to continue into the future that are happening now?

R: Um... there's a lot of things um... pause. I think the... trying to have like doing what you're doing, trying to hear from people about what they really want or what they like or what they wanna see come in. Cause there'll always be people that have, the money that are respected and um, what to do with indiscernible or the indiscernible in the area um, there's gotta be something, people will do for this regardless. Um, but if they're gonna be a community effort to communicate what we think is valuable and what we want to see... um, I think would influence people's decisions um... um... lost in background noise.

Interviewer: What's some things that are important to continue to the future of Meadville?

R: Um... yeah I think havin' events um, that bring people together like, things that seem to have gotten a lot bigger like second Saturday seems like it's you know, grown every year um, and people you know again, things that are consistent that people can count on they know it's easy to um... the cuisine you have a lot of things goin' on one time you might not be able to make it but you know it's comin' up again and you can get out to it I think things that bring... like that that are consistent that can bring the community together um, are important for keeping it um... lively and progressing um... yeah I think um, if we keep like I always, I'm always thinking about the creek um, you know working on the Ernst trail or working on access to get to, into the creek and to get around places that aren't... like you can go on your bike or um...  I help a lot of other people be connected and um... Cause I know living in town, the Ernst trail even seems far away you have to like drive there to go for a walk, 

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: Um... to be able to walk to things from town is important. pause Yeah and I learned at um, I was at the woodcock, they had a, not a public meeting a, like a stake holder meeting for doing a new... whatever they call em, the planning... plan, the strategic plan, something like that um, for the woodcock creek area the army core of engineers the whole lake area. And there's now a bus stop out maybe at, either at woodcock or at like Ice Cream Cottage um, from from the CATA line so from Meadville. I think it's maybe even once or a couple times a week they can get out to Seagertown and woodcock area, from the bus. And I realized that, so that

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: That opens up a whole 'nother nature recreating area to people. 

Interviewer: So it's from ice cream cottage to woodcock or it's from Saegertown to...

R: I think it's from, it's from Meadville to out there so I, I don't know if the, if the drop of point is um, ice cream cottage area um, it's they have now the Saegertown line so that whatever services needs... that it's... yeah you know... thinking of ways to keep people connected, as easily as possible and... pause. Um pause.

Interviewer: What do you, kinda of a different type of... What do you want your children to experience here when they grow up?

R: Um... I want them... whether they were to stay um, eeuh maybe I could see my youngest daughter staying, my oldest daughter wants to get outta here as soon as possible, um... but when she comes back for like home um... um... and I think even, if somebody would ask me if, when I was a teenager I would have said I was leaving and never coming back probably laughs. I think perception changes when your a little older when you  have kids um... But yeah just for the, still feel like home and feel like um... you know, familiar places or, hopeful that they can say hello and remember them you know that kinda stuff I think that it would always feel that way and I think they've found enough, been involved in enough things found enough that they would, you know be able to walk into so many stores and know the owners and, be able to say hello, um... yeah. pause

Interviewer: Um, if you had, if you could change something or if had a magic wand and you could make something happen um, is there anything that comes to mind that you want, in Meadville?

R: More... more bigger places with secure jobs. 

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: Um, I mean everybody, you know there's, there's always been problems but I think um, like I said in the mid 80s when it wasn't just, for my family was effective was most of the railroad it wasn't just the railroad that left at that time. Um, but when we lost all the big um... employer, the big steady employers all, in this short time frame um... Its amaze, I wouldn't say that we've, recovered from from that we're still recovering from that um, it didn't but, but it didn't wipe us out either um... so I think if there could be some bigger, or more places that are secure like, i know the tool and die industry is big here but it, that industry has its ups and downs. And um, the people, young people going into it have to learn about money management because of the ups  and downs or be willing to move because of the ups and downs um... so I think what would really turn the area around would be more staple employment for the average person. Um... I don't know what that is laughs...

Interviewer: I have no idea...i was gonna ask do you know what that...

R: through laughter I have no idea. Is there you know, everywhere is struggling places that are leaving Erie now uh... I don't know what that is. Whether it's the tech industry you know I don't know um... I don't got the answers laughs.

Interviewer: But your looking for st so what makes the job secure I guess?

R: Right? Um...and I know everything's different from my parents generation where people expect to be in one job for their whole career no one expects that anymore I think um, but places you know buis, or industries that don't have necessarily the... less than 10 year ups and downs um, um places that you know can do the living wage you know you're not trying to get by. Um, trying to raise a family on minimum wage uh, um... yeah I don't know what that would be. But I know yeah the poverty rate, the drug use problems here, that it's been here all the time since I grew up, it's increased and it, and it's noticeable and it's you know the only thing that I thinks gonna fix it is something that's gonna bring jobs. And steady jobs. pause.

Interviewer: Um, that's pretty much all the questions I have but if there's something you wanna talk about that you feel like you haven't had a chance too then this would be a good time for...

R: Um, I I've always, I just I've always liked that's it's... you know we're a small town but we're not as small as the places around, you know the other places in Crawford County. There is definitely smaller we're not that small, but everybody tends to know each other and I think look out for each other um, uh... my fam and then I, I grew up here but my family wasn't super well known I think families that own businesses are super well known I didn't know the names I did not come from one of those families um... but that doesn't mean that I feel left out of community happenings or anything um, people are very friendly um... When we moved back, we moved back in May, and that year my daughter started kindergarten in the fall and, the way they do the start of school here is um, the 3 days bef the Wednesday before labor day so 3 days of school, and you have labor day and then there's 4 days of school and then 5 days of school. So the first 3 days of kindergarten went very well, clears throat and then that day after labor day my daughter refused to, we were waiting for the bus and when the bus came she refused to get on, and she was screaming and I had to put her, physically put her kicking and screaming on the bus, and my phone, when I went to work after kicking and screaming on the bus my phone was ringing in my office and my mother was calling saying I heard you had to put Lucy on the bus kicking and screaming laughs and I was like oh my god how did you know already? And it was her coworker in the car, waiting patiently for me to put my daughter kicking and screaming on the bus laughs... And the fact that that coworker knew that it was 

Interviewer: They found out pretty quickly.

Both laugh

R: So some people I guess don't like that kinda small town stuff, but I think it's nice to know that people are looking out for you and people do generally have you back if you need help in any way um... I think uh that's what, and then and, I think people feel, sometimes feel a barrier about being included in our community things but, if they would, even if there not a people person like me laughs. I'm very good at pretending I am a people person laughs uh, if they can take the stuff and, um come to things and get involved and talk with people that, hopefully they would quickly realize that there it's not a barrier that people are welcoming um, uh... I've never felt um, not welcome at any of the things that I've gone to um, especially when my kids were younger any of the events that popped up I would make them go with me and we'd go check things out and see what was going on, and, we've always felt welcome. But um, and even now my kids always say you know you why are you taking us to this... what is this, why are you taking us and then why... Do I take you to bad things? laughs Have you ever not had fun? laughs So I think you know, there, some people I know certainly feel barriers to do not, but they shouldn't and... lost in background noise

R: Yeah, I'll never, at anything whether in, whether it's um, an event at uh like fundraiser events where it's definitely business owners and people with more money um, so uh, and I never felt unwelcome there as opposed to things that are free and, for everybody. pause

Interviewer: What do you, what do you think allows people to take that next step, why are people hesitating?  pause

R: Yeah I think it's there own personal experience and background and um... probably, I don't know, uh, how they were brought up and whether their family felt welcomed um, or anything um... yeah I don't know um, my parents weren't super involved in things but, um... when we were doing sports or clubs at school if we said we were gonna do it then we were given it, and we were going to everything and, laughs we weren't um, signing up for things and not going.

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: Um, so I don't know and um, I hope cause right now and my children's age they're reluctant to do anything but I hope then having taking them to things throughout their childhood they'll eventually, appreciate that and then know that they can do it when they're on their own or older um... not scared to take that step. Cause you can, especially when you're new to a place, scary um... and I tried to , as a person that's not scared of it laughs um, say hello, you know say, other people say hello to people that might be new people and welcome them so they don't feel like there, not even being acknowledged at an event… yeah.

Interviewer: Anything else?

R: laughs

Interviewer: Alright, well that's all I have then um... so just the other two things are... 