Connection Number 005

Interviewer: Just say your first and last name when I a, when I a, ask you your first question. Um, so can you tell me something about the city of Meadville that has happened here or happens here regularly that makes you really love it. 

R: Um... R Merit, I think the balloon festival, I think that's when you think of Meadville something that you always, think about, and I know that's something that we've always gone to. That would probably be the one thing that comes to mind.

Interviewer: Sure, and what about the mumbled 

R: It's something unique and different that you can't find in other areas.

Interviewer: Uh huh, and who do you go there with? 

R: Family:

Interviewer: Yeah, what a what do you do when you go there?

R: Well I guess watch the balloons. laughs

Interviewer: Yeah 

R: We're boring.

Interviewer: No that's awesome. Um, what do you think matter to you about living here? 

R: Um... the small community atmosphere, I think that's I mean we're outside, I mean we're Cochranton so we even have that more and that's why we've chosen to live there is because of the community and um, Meadville's the big city laughs when your in Cochranton but uh, knowing the general area the community, is small but family oriented um, um I'm not sure if Meadville is as much as what Cochranton would be but, um you get the same effect.

Interviewer: And why is that something that you particularly like?

R: Safe environment.

Interviewer: Uh huh.

R: Uh, nice place to raise family.

Interviewer: Mm hm, do you feel pretty safe like walking around town?

R: I think for the most part. I think it's changed over the years i think it used to be a lot, more at ease to do something like that but now you here all the different stories of things that happen so you, are a little bit more hesitant.

Interviewer: Hm, what kind of things do you hear?

R: Well um... like the up at Walmart, they just had that incident where the lady was gettin' followed around and, again just different. 

Interviewer: Mm hm.

R: Creepier things that never used to happen 25 years ago laughs. And there seems to be more violence in the community than there was 25 years ago.

Interviewer: So you so how long have you been here?

R: I've been in Cochranton my whole life, 

Interviewer: Okay

R: and then, I worked in Meadville... College I worked in Meadville, and then I did subbing, so a pretty good chunk. Um, I've been in Venango County the last five years but, other than that I've basically always worked in the Meadville area. 

Interviewer: So what brought you to working in Meadville?

R: Closeness to home. Um you can't find anything much more closer than laughs. Especially in Cochranton there's not much, not many jobs.

Interviewer: Uh huh.

R: So, I'm in Meadville.

Interviewer: Yeah sure, so why why have you continued to work in Meadville?

R: The same reason you know it's close, um you know it's a quick easy drive and the jobs are decent so, why go anywhere else I guess.

Interviewer: Do you have um... any memories that come to mind about like, like being in Meadville or you know you you have to make the drive every time you come so, it, are there things that you come here for other than work? 

R: We do shopping. Again there's not many options in Cochranton so we when you need something you end up running to Meadville. And it's not that bad of a, you know fifteen minutes and you're there.

Interviewer: Uh huh.

R: Um... pause There's not, I mean there's activities to do but we seem to always be on the run so we don't you know um, we've got a movie theater in town now so we don't use the theater to much in here. Uh we used to go to the rec complex, so... just things like that I guess.

Interviewer: Yeah sure. Do you have like a story of any, any anything that you've done in Meadville?

R: mumbled 

Interviewer: Okay um, what do you think would make staying in this area easier for you?

R: Uh more children activities and events. And we're, we are here to stay so laughs. But it would be nice if there was more opportunities for them. Um, there's so many opportunities for dance and gymnastics and that stuff but it all comes with a hefty fee too. So it'd be nice if there was some activities for the kids that weren't so high priced monetarily, and then like the time commitment and all those kind of activities they want you to sign up for the whole year, but if there was something that kids could do, when there's time available. 

Interviewer: Is there something that you think you'd be looking for?

R: Um... just like little I don't know like activity days type thing, different things like that.

Interviewer: Mm hm, have you seen anything like that happen?

R: Um, what have we gone to, well like the winterfest different things  like that where there's been kid friendly activities. I think those are nice events, and the downtown mall. they did a few years ago, oh i think it was the co-op did it, a um like multicultural event, and they had different stations set up in the downtown mall and you could go and do activities at each one and then they do the children's day at the mall too, I'm not sure if that's what it's called but something down there.

Interviewer: I think it is.

R: Where there's different activities for the kids to do.

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: yeah it'd be nice to have some kinda... dance program or something that didn't cost so much you know laughs. 

Interviewer: And do you have children that you would take to these things?

R: Mm hm.

Interviewer: Oh, okay. What kinda things do they do?

R: Um, we've done the dance, and payed and arm and a leg laughs.

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: Um... the Y, does a lot of nice programs we've done a lot of the Y programs we've done the gymnastics and the tee ball and the soccer because they're short term they're only six week programs, and um, they really emphasize those programs more on having fun and not so much we're in it to win it. 

Interviewer: Hm.

R:  Or is like, the sporting teams the tee ball like, through the little leagues are more, okay you need to do it this way and,  so yeah we've done  the Y programs we're pretty happy with those. 

Interviewer: Because of the shorter commitment you think they're...

R: yeah and the emphasis on the child having a good time and enjoying it not, being pressured to always be the winner.

Interviewer: Mm, gotcha, that's cool. Do you feel like there's a certain like spirit to Meadville, like something that captures our spirit?

R: I don't know if i would know that, especially I mean if you grew up here and went to school here and stuff, probably have a different... I mean I could tell you that about Cochranton, you know.

Interviewer: Well even just you know, working here as much as you have I mean does anything, anything that you think of?

R: I think it's definitely a community more antitown um, I think you can get support from the community when you need it, if your an organization that's reaching out, i think the community will come, step up to the plate to support you. And they're always pretty good about donating stuff, different places I worked we always needed to, scour the town for donations and ah, laughs this is pretty good about that.

Interviewer: Yeah, what kinda businesses are usually like donating?

R: Um, gosh I've done a whole array of stuff,

Interviewer: yeah.

R: I mean just from getting Chinese auction donations for church, to um, doing like annual fun type projects so, I don't know the whole way, the whole spectrum. 

Interviewer: Yeah that's cool. I know I feel like I'm always asking for, donations but...

R: Yeah, you get tired of asking but...

Interviewer: Yeah!

R: I'm sure they get tired of being asked at the same time.

Interviewer: Um, is there something that if it was pulled out of Meadville like it could be a person it could be a place um, or even like an idea, and it would feel like it wasn't Meadville anymore to you?

R: Well I think some of the bigger, like dads and channel lock like if they pulled out I think it definitely would affect the community just because of how many people they employ.

Interviewer: Mm hm.

R: Um pause mm pause.

Interviewer: Do you know folks that work at dads and channel lock?

R: Yeah, yeah some channel lock people, and I think like, especially both of those are well known companies, 

Interviewer: Mm hm.

R: That are in Meadville so that's kinda like a signature, or branding type

Interviewer: Sure.

R: You know that's Meadville type...

Interviewer: Yeah sure. Dog food...

R: I blacked out, yeah I think those would, I think they would affect if either one of those companies pulled out.

Interviewer: Yeah. Um, what do you think is happening in Meadville now that  you think is important to continue into the future?

R: I think that this My Meadville project and the different things that have spun from that um, are important like even with, what is it Dan Hunter, doin' those rose huts and things, I think that's gotten people excited about the community again, I think that would be nice to keep in do similar things I mean I'm sure that's probably going to get old at some point or he's gonna get tired of it laughs but similar things like that that got people excited.

Interviewer: Mm hm. Why do you think those have gotten people excited?

R: Probably because, they're probably lookin' for something free too laughs.

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: But, I mean it got them out in the community and it was a great move on his part for promoting his business too I mean they were all lookin' on Facebook waiting for him.

Interviewer: Yeah.

R: So, I just think it was a neat, neat idea that he came up with.

Interviewer: Uh huh, have you gone after any of the roses?

R: Mm hm. We used to when they he was in Cochranton one time we, 

Interviewer: Oh yeah.

R: We, we went out and... I mean it was a neat little scavenger hunt too.

Interviewer: Yeah 

R: So...

Interviewer: Did you get, did you get any?

R: I'll have to convince him to go to Cochranton again laughs.

Interviewer: anything else that going on that you were, you are pretty fond of right now?

R: No not right now. 

Interviewer: Okay. Um, what do you want you children to experience growing up in this area?

R: Um, a safe secure environment that's friendly, a family oriented, um, we have relatives in bigger cities and, you know when you go there it's different laughs and they don't have the sense of community like in the school and everybody knowing everybody and um, that comfort zone. So I think that's why, i mean that's why we've chosen the small towns is just to, ah it just seems like a more friendly atmosphere you don't get lost in the hustle and the bustle and the... six million people everywhere so...

Interviewer: Um, if you could change something to make Meadville even better,

R: Oh boy.

Interviewer: or if you had a wish for Meadville, does anything come to mind?

R: I think it'd be nice to see indiscernible I mean there was a while where the down town was just kinda, abandoned type thing. 

Interviewer: Mm.

R: Um, I definitely would be nice to have some of the things that people pull away from Meadville to go like, um Erie or Hermitage, some of those like bigger store and, there's just more like, opportunities and it would be nice to see some of that come down but, I don't know if we just don't have the population to support such places but, I always think that would be nice if we had some sort of bigger department stores and stuff that you typically have to run to Erie for. It would be nice to keep the, a it closer and keep the money in the community laughs.

Interviewer: Sure. So do you travel to Erie to go to those stores?

R: Yeah, for Hermitage or Butler.

Interviewer: Mm hm.

R: Um, just cause like, places like Sam's Club, you can only get so much at Walmart laughs.

Interviewer: Mm.

R: So, and even like the department stores and that kinda stuff, again Walmart has its limits. 

Interviewer: Mm hm.

R: Or you end up going on Amazon.

Interviewer: Mm hm. You mentioned um, that you think the downtown is maybe growing a bit. 

R: Mm hm.

Interviewer: Can you talk about that like what you've seen? 

R: Well like you used to go down to chestnut street and there was so many empty places and um, park avenue... and it just seems like some of those store and businesses  are getting revitalized and um, some of the activities that are happening like the second Saturdays at the Market House and um, don't they do that band thing too?

Interviewer: Um,

R: they did it on top of a, what was it a garage...

Interviewer: Oh! The Second Saturday night lives.

R: Yeah yeah I mean they're doing more activities to get people to come downtown and I think that's pretty important.

Interviewer: Mm hm. 

R: It's almost like two little mini towns for our new township and then downtown. 

Interviewer: Oh yeah? What makes you say that like what do you feel or what do you see?

R: Um, cause so much for years was growing in Vernon township and like, your grocery, just bigger grocery stores and mean you could very feasibly have to do everything in Vernon township and never set foot in downtown. Ah, if we didn't work in it, that probably would have been for us because you would have just, head to that way and everything up there. All your restaurants are up there. Yeah I mean well i guess you really could actually laughs completely avoid downtown.

Interviewer: Yeah, so what brings, what keeps you coming, just work or is it...

R: Yeah.

Interviewer: Yeah?

R: Yeah, cause it's not typically like I don't, shop downtown unless I'm looking for something specific.

Interviewer: Mm hm. What kind of things would bring you downtown more do you think?

R: Um pause. Well I guess you got Tops, I guess some of those bigger department stores. But where in the world would you put it you know laughs. So... 

Interviewer: Well that's all the questions I have is there anything else that you feel like you didn't get to touch on?

R: No I think that's pretty good.

Interviewer: Okay, cool. Thank you. Um...

R: Thank you, I'm glad you were able to come in and 

end of recording.