Interviewer: IR

Interviewee (Jack): IE

Interviewee 2: IE2

IR: So yeah, if you um there's a ton of different ways to get involved. So um we can talk about that too.

R: I actually just... still waiting to hear back from the folks we *muffled* the board of people to talk about what direction they want the newspaper to go in. I applied to be part of that now. I haven't heard back from them yet. And then there was an absence of non market authority for it muffled. You don't have an email or anything so I had to like write out a letter by hand, which is fine I love writing but it's a little antiquated for this kind of thing.

IR: Yes. mhm but yeah I mean this is a great way to get involved. And so it's coming out of the rebuild and so are

R: Overlapping talk government sanction thing or that just people organized person organized thing

IR: This My Meadville project?

R: the- the

IR: The redevelopment authority is a government so it's like a it's called a quasi-municipal it's the same way the market authority is kind of under the city umbrella um so we've got the board and um, but the My Meadville project that's coming out of it is just all resident volunteer driven um but like we're actively working to get something else on board like we've had one of the council members join the leadership team recently like um and we're really trying to update them a lot. to like keep it on the forefront of their minds so like when we come to them later and we've gone through everybody's stories and have pulled out the themes of like this is what's important to people and this is what we want to see our town then they'll... it's not coming out of nowhere and be like ok yes we already bought into this. If this is what people are saying, than this is what we will do, so anyway there's a connection there to.

R: Now is there like something that you're just using for your own or is it something like a poster?

IR: So so we record it so we can transcribe it and then we've got other volunteers that are on our data team that kinda that transcribe they take out the whole thing then they pull out from your story what is important to you right so if you talk about certain things then they'll say ok that fits this theme of what people are talking about. We also  we um do have a release for just in case like you're saying awesome things that are really gonna resonate with people and we're like hey can we share it um but if you don't sign it, then we just won't do that but that's up to you so the recording is mainly for data purposes but

R: I just learned a lot and been here a long time and if you need people you know I know Sean Donahue, I know someone uh zoning board, I know the democratic party here, and stuff not the head of it the office where the democratic party of Meadville *muffled* Minute 3:06 I don't want to overstate personal connections and then have somebody be like "oh hey this guy knows so and so he probably has the ear of someone" and have this guy be like" I don't know what you're talking- you know what I mean is all

IR: Ok, yeah yeah no I mean so yeah and if you do wanna get involved and you know whatever connections you have

R: So is there a right answer or should I start with like it was a misty afternoon in May 1991 when I was born or should I try that?

IR: *laughs*  Well we do have some uh uh muffled so uh Jack and Marv.... well you can answer them all together you could just be part of the conversation, Jack what is your last name?

R: Muffled so technically my first name is John 

R: I mean but no one calls you John

R: Right but I mean

IR: No it's however you wanna, Marv what's your last name?

R: muffled 

IR: Cool um so you've been in Meadville for a long time

R: Yeah this is year 26

IR: Ok So did you always live in the city

R: yeah well West Mead but right up from the hospital up Leighton Road right up there

IR: Yeah, and do you live around there now?

R: No so technically we live in an apartment right behind McDonald's but we just purchased a house.

IR: Really? Congratulations, wow.

R: We'll be living on Column, right below the college

IR: Yeah, cool. That's a nice neighborhood.

R: It's a nice neighborhood, it's got it's since it used to be like an all Allegheny apartments and stuff too it's really turning into more like younger families moving in

R: Yeah, because the college changed the way their living arrangements were on campus and stuff so like now you have to stay there unless you have like certain privileges your senior year, and that's like the only time you can move off campus in the college

R: So now they move like families in there, it's really awesome

R: Cuz there was even, there was even a house that two of my friends had lived in that was like a six seven person apartment that's now for sale a whole house. And that surprised me I was like "ok that's not going to be seven college kids living there that's going to be like a big family

IR: The one on Column that has like stairs that go up yeah I've had friends that live there

R: I was going to say, I feel like

R: If you went down I spent my last two years of college at Allegheny so I graduated from 

IR: ok what year?

R: uh well so i spent two years at Clarion *outside noise* there's been some drawbacks of inteviewing in a coffee shop i spent two years at Clarion and my sophomore about halfway through the year Tom Forbett cut secondary education funding then they changed like the entire curriculum of the program I was in it used to be seven different majors in the communication department and then they like lumped them all together into one and called "well you could concentrate in this" it was just mass media arts and journalism  and I'm like "great so instead of studying the one thing I want to study I now have to study journalism like tv production like um everything and I was just like transferring to a school where they can't screw with the funding of educational system and it ended up working out pretty well so I at Allegheny, because it's private, their credits their classes are different at Clarion it was like every class was worth 3 credits and every lab 4, for Allegheny it's 4 and 6. Like things completed but they only transferred in as 3 or 4 credits they didn't like change the- so like senior year, I had all of my stuff done my senior project was finished after the first half of my senior year basically so the second semester senior year, I took like twenty two credits I had to get permission from the office to take more than twenty credits and I just took like a bunch of religious ed courses that was 2013 but that I was 8 credits short so I got an `ok through my advisor professor keely to take a uh independent study over the summer with him and a internship which for the broadcasting downtown for the radio station yeah and that was my last 8 credits I didn't even go to graduation cuz everyone of the friends that I already had made there had already graduated and already walked so I just "just mail me my diploma" like I don't know anybody whose walking this you know, it was kind of a let down but I mean uh the graduation was 2014 I think but I didn't take classes the entirety of 2014 you know what I mean, I was in Meadville in the summer

IR: So were you Comm arts 

R: Communications and political science uh political science was my minor but I was like I just didn't want to do a duel or combined senior project even though I had a enough you know I could have actually majored in it but that's when I was like "I could come back for another year" if I want, I could just have another degree but I was like I don't want to spend that much more money plus the scholarship you get for being from Meadville you get like a $10,000 scholarship

IR: Oh really?

R: Yeah for each year for two years if you're like from the area it's like it's automatic scholarship it's like you just through an endowment I think but I was like if i come back, I won't get that again I'll be paying like full- even though I was living off campus- I could send a lovely letter to the dean saying that if they wanted to take my money they were going to have to let me live off campus considering that it was like a three minute drive from my parent's to the campus cuz they were like "you have to live on campus" and I was like "uh excuse me but no thanks" *laughs*

IR: So uh mar you said you been living here for a year

R: A little bit over don't you think

R: This summer will be two years so 

IR: So where were you before

R: Clarion at Clarion College

IR: Did you guys meet at Clarion

R: Yes 

R: Attended at Clarion laughs

IR: Yeah but when you were in the Clarion area, that when you 

R: Well he came he was going, he'd already gradated, and we met and um I was still living in Clarion and he came up there for muffled

IR: That's funny because this project used to be called Heart and soul anyways laughs that's cool so uh you've been here for you've been living in town for a year and a half 

R: Yeah we lived on park ave at first and then that February, we moved down to the apartment we're in now we've been there since

IR: And so you were from Clarion

R: I am not

R: Yeah her situations a little more

R: I was born in Clearfield I have lived in muffled ridgeway and uh waynesboro and Pittsburgh

IR: ok

R: And you lived in Connecticut or Deleware

R: Deleware

IR: Yeah so now you're

R: Went to Erie college um and I lived there throughout college and then even like my senior year I took classes muffled 

R: that's really big and stuff we're hoping to get an opportunity to go back somewhere and finish her degree or do something else they have a program too at college for women overlapping talk

R: Yeah that would be really awesome

R: Cuz like I don't know how

IR: Yeah 

R: the thing works with the Meadville scholarship I don't know if you have a certain amount of time to get there or what

R: probably I'm not sure, I think you have to be a resident

R: This would be a big deal especially with where we live she could walk everyday to the college 

IR: Yeah Column's right there I know a psych professor that lives on Column street. who has a young kid

R: My favorite professor I ever had lives on Column too, uh professor Christy-Searles

IR: oh yeah yeah

R: Yeah he was awesome

IR: Well he uh did you hear what his plans are?

R: I mean this guy has done everything and like can do anything and that's why it's so remarkable I remember trying to find his email once and getting onto the website and like next to the teacher;s names and information they list like their degrees and he had like a degree from MIT, he had a degree, he's working on his doctorate he might have completed by now he also had a degree from john hopkins he had a degree from like lancaster he did his undergrad somewhere really really high notch you know what I mean

IR: Yeah so he is leaving Allegheny and he's gonna go to be a Buddhist monk

R: That doesn't surprise me he's done research with  overlapping he has done something 

IR: It's crazy just like ok bye

R: One of his research projects is like community of monks somewhere it might have been south america I think it was I mean he like lived with them for six months that's literally something I've always thought of 

R: We had a group of tibetan monks at clarion for

IE they did one of those sand art things

IR: Yeah they did one at Allegheny too

IE2 They did it at the all guys dorm, because there's an all guys dorm and all girls dorm up there and they stay at they got one of those big huge sand dala in the library and they had the big ceremony where and yeah but they stay for a like a whole semester and they weren't like taking classes or anything but they offered like different classes that you could take

IR: That's really cool 

R: It was only like one credit but I just wanted to take 

R: They actually take the sand and they have a ceremony where they like pour it into a river

R: Yeah so like what they do they destroy the whole thing after they made it and then they take it to a river and it doesn't matter how much effort you put into something it still 

IR: Yeah like permanence and yeah and detachment

IE2 Right

IE This is like a huge thing in buddhism 

IR so this is really funny I guess that there was some um monks that came up to allegheny they` were up here for about a week but they did the same thing they like breathed the sand on to the dawa and then they tore it away but then laughs but then I didn't get a chance to go but i i i saw people later and they were like look and they like and they had little vials of the sand 

R: Did they give them or did they take them 

IR I think they were like giving them and I was like that's cool but like doesn't that defeat the point isn't it supposed to like you're not supposed to keep it cuz like you're yeah it's supposed to but anyways

IE i guess like in a metaphorical sense if it is a reminder like they like permanent reminder of impermanence then it's like a loophole

IE2 yeah that's for sure

IR: um 

R: That's like a funeral with all the incense I mean we have celebrations of death just like we celebration of life

IR So I'm wondering what do you love about Meadville

IE Do you wanna go first

IE2 I don't know whose answer would affect the other person's answer more I think my answer will affect your answer less than your answer will affect my answer so I should probably go first what do i love about Meadville? um probably the mostly that there's so many people here who care, care enough to be involved in all kinds of ways because I never really understood that when I was growing because growing up was like the tail end of what everyone who lived in any real small town experienced from the 1950s on you know what I mean which I even had a really interesting conversation with one of my coworkers the other day about it i was like people in our generation and even i'd say like ten years of my age older, all are starting to be more involved and desiring to be more involved and more civic oriented and just re-finding the comraderie that existed like pre-wwii i guess you could say. Because like right when the 1950s hit old industry throughout the nation, anywhere really, it all started to leave to go mexico other countries, and so people became jaded to that you know what i mean, they were just like jobs were leaving times were getting tougher from 1950 till today the population of meadville has dropped by 6000 people from 19500 to 13500 and it's only been in the past five six seven years that i even experienced that re-emergence you know they built the theater on top of the hill, that spawned two more restaurants that saved the little italian restaurant that was doing terrible up there they fixed North street which at one point in time was kind of this crummy place that was not well lit at night and I just whatever you know people ride their bikes in the dark and like you know and they the bridge finally just got replaced this past year and it looks gorgeous you know I mean the town even looks better.  And that whole strip is more well lit they've been putting in- voodoo opened obviously and that's been huge. It's like nationally known at this point now, they've opened two more locations you know and I think that they just needed like that little restaurant, you know Rosa's legacy, it opened up where Theodore's used to be. Theodore's for my entire life was this bar that was just the dreg of the town. It was just where the- yeah that's the best word I can think of it, and I don't know if you can negatively point fingers at people that went there whatever but like

IR: But it's what that was what you felt from your perspective, that how you viewed it

IE1: See and knowing that that could be turned into something so thriving and not only that but it's owned by someone whose culturally completely different from the people of this town that live here you know it's not just some random white person opening another business, it's like a guy from central America or something like that, you know serving his own kind of food and even if it's only open three or four days a week, people are still lining up to go in there. You know *muffled* and then even like this coffee shop purple fox games, that's what I did when I was a kid was I learned how to play card games, and there was a shop right on North street that was called fantasy card and comics when I was real little and I became really good friends with the cashier there who I'm still friends with this day, who has always held the time economically speaking but when the owner of Fantasy cards and comics closed he took like a business loan and he reopened his own shop doing the exact same thing like where rounding head records was before they moved so it was records used to be in this tiny little shop and he just bought that an opened it up and this was it was great because he was passionate about but his desire to have a place where people like us meet somewhere like that was part of the reason that he did that and I didn't understand it then, but in retrospect, that's huge from a community standpoint like part of his actual reason for investing in an economic business was only for his own gain that he just cared about people to want to have something like that and now there's another place open like that and when I saw that i was like "no way" like really and i like dropped in and I was like, this is so cool and I was like all kinds of nostalgia and stuff and these places where these people come in and make these 10000 dollar like interest free business loans, that's amazing, I've never heard of anybody doing something like that and that's just people giving a shit and wanting to improve the place they live, caring and making it better. It's reinvigorating, reinventing my faith in humanity anyways.

IR: That's great that's really cool. What about you, what do you love about Meadville?

R: It's like a family, I came from Clarion and I guess clarion is like whoa clarion was like I built this family had all these friends we even had shirts that said like muffled  because I remember Friday nights at my apartment and twenty plus people would show up and they either donate five dollars or whatever I needed to make and they would just sleep at my house and we'd all hang out at the porch and just talk about our days its always muffled and I got like this role this mom figure to all of them and the shirts that said "the family we build ourselves" because we all came from different places and there was this really impactful group that I should go and when I left everybody was really sad and like muffled I mean it's not far, but like everyone was graduating now people were moving and I'm here, I'm starting a life and then at first I was really really sad about it like I wanted to move here and wanted to move in with him but it was still like leaving this little piece behind and then we don't have that same sense of community in different ways especially through this pregnancy it's been incredible how much community based like every day I mean there's been muffled like this is what I'm experiencing, can somebody help me or like I'll help with this thing or I need someone to bitch to, but like it's still just this little group that like you may never meet them but you still have this group of people that are still based in the same area and then there's the whole thing in Meadville theyre all just local moms that get together to talk and help each other and um and every month I'm part of just one more thing and that like last month I was they had that cleanup at Diamond park and that was incredible I'm just like that's just such a cool I was expecting to see like ten or fifteen people and there was a ton of people I mean the park was like packed.

IE1 It was crazy, I couldn't believe how many people just walked or drove to the park just to pick up trash

IE2 to help the community, I'm like that's so cool and- go ahead

IE1 And sorry what I found most interesting about it, eh I don't think it is true but the obvious thing is how social media has drastically improved peoples ability to congregate in any way I mean whether it's for a negative purpose or interaction the ku klux klan also uses social media but I don't like to think about that you know laughs but my point is I found out about that clean up thing because I just went for a walk that day, and I saw John Harden like eating his lunch waiting for his apartment to get fixed and he was just like "Oh hey there's going to be this thing on Thursday, you should totally come" it was all word of mouth. That tells me one very important thing, and it's that people aren't just posting these things on line hoping that people come it means that they're actively promoting just from themselves, and that's what I find so important every chance I get that somebody asks me something about Meadville you've got a conversation, I'm like "you got an hour, let's sit down let's have a chat" you know because if I can just convince that this place is even slightly better than they thought it was originally then I've done something, even if I'm not going and picking up trash, you know information is power 

IR: Yeah for sure 

IE2 muffled and then there's everyone else that's one thing I see people constantly and they're like oh you've got to and like "I get it" laughs yeah I mean that's my job. At the same time it's kind of yeah muffled because for example on Saturday last week and he muffled and they all know me because muffled and they're all like how's your boyfriend how's he doing. 

IR: He's great, let me tell you

R: Well I thought that was kind of cool also understood I was like I know way more people than I thought I did like

IE2 But it also shows that like being here I do know that you do become part of this community you know, he's been here like his whole life basically right so they know who he is, and know you his name he stands for himself and I think that's really awesome because no matter where you go, you have to make a name for yourself in something and even if it is right now just the like it's still like how are you there's this one little you know who should muffled but it's like shes the muffled she's always asking oh you're having a baby like and muffled no dear you know and at this point I know here whole family life you know I know about her great granddaughter who just had her great great grandaughter and hes a drug addict and she doesn't want him around them the baby was two months premature and but she that's a person in my life now you know it's just it's built from checking them out at the store and now I see them, I talk to them and this friendly person because then she's like you know muffled but she's always checking in and she wants this she wants to talk and it's such a big deal to live in a town where you can meet somebody and they become this actual like lasting kind of friendship it's not necessarily someone your going to hang out with or catch dinner with but they're still there, they're still going to talk to you and that's really cool especially since muffled overlapping and I don't want to be walking around and everyone has their head down you know totally engrossed in themselves and it's like overlapping talk and it seems like every and my first few months here everyone muffled we were at the market house and like you know it's always exciting to be here here and you know it's always like these little things that like when I lived in clarion, it was always about getting people that didn't live in clarion and I mean like look what we have to offer and it's got that here too and I think that's what we muffled long pause

IR So I think I know what brought you to meadville, why do you stay here?

IE2 Well that's funny actually because whenever we first so before I got pregnant we were going to in February in our apartment and we had been talking about other living options and we had looked at like Erie and Pittsburgh Dc and like we were really city focused you know we were like muffled and uh we had looked at all these places and I you know we found out that I was pregnant I was like ok maybe we'll just find another apartment around here you know stay here for like a year until Finn's a year old and then we really sat down and though about it and it was like why why are we moving? You know there's all these opportunities that we talk about but like at the end of day and I just told him this last time because I was sitting down writing for like two hours and like I walked around and did all this muffled and I said you just you see all these families doing things down here, it's not costing them anything and they're just having a good time muffled you now there's so many up and coming things in this city now this town everything I'm a part of you know that to me is like a huge deal because in the city it's like I want to muffled but at the end of the day there's so much opportunity here in Meadville in different aspects and having this in this coffee shop muffled laughs 

IR Would you agree Jack 

IE1 yeah um I didn't understand for me there's like kind of a cold answer and like a muffled answer. I'm just being honest. based on the demographics and stuff you look and because of that huge industry loss throughout the west and especially Pennslyvania you have towns that survive and you have towns that aren't and when you look around here, and even where I work out in Greensville Greenville has this huge chunk of town that it cordoned off that can't be developed for anything because the trinity railcar was there and after they moved people came to like reclaim the area so there's this entire gated off area of the town right in the center it's undevelopable overlapping talk whatever the word is right and it's sad even that town to be like community oriented city you know hasn't been washed for a variety of different reasons um and you can just see that everyone who lives there drives somewhere else to work, it's the same thing with Saegertown it's the same thing with Cochranton. Meadville, Hermitage, Erie places like that there they managed somehow for whatever reason, whether's it because people cared or because industries didn't leave have survived. And now that they've hit this point they're finally kind of making that re-arc you know. When I was little, I remember the mall up where K mart was slowly dying. Or Montgomery wards, leaving. That downtown movie theater just becoming more decrepit like and then it finally like rebounded. So I experienced growing the tail end of Meadville failing. And then I saw people reinvesting and caring and trying to build it up and that motivated me. Yeah I want to live in a big city someday just for a little bit. You know I want to live west coast for a little bit, but I want to do all those things to experience them because I'll never ever care about any of those places as much as I care about y home. And when people say things like "oh there's nothing to do in this town." I'm like "Shut the hell up" laughs because I hear that all the time from people I grew up with here they just want to leave. And I'm like you know what makes a town have things to do? you know what makes a town wonderful? Having people who stay and make it that way because it never will be that way unless people like that. Everybody should have a home that they want to feel that way about, and can feel that way about so I just want to change everybody's mind about it some way, whether I can do it through talking or being involved. I want my son to grow up saying "there's so much to do. I can go run off in the woods and play, I can go down to the local parks, There's even if they take when we grew up, there's all these local bands that play all those random guys or Paul D or those guys who were in the tourpentines right muffled um I even did a documentary on them when I was at Allegheny about the local music when I was growing up .There was that place above the market house where they used to perform. The moon cafe or what ever, and then there was the union room, which was right above that supply shop three stories up in this little dark room where metal bands would come and play and they used to come and perform and they still to this day perform music all over the place. And they're not getting rich off it they're not making money, they're just these four guys that love making music, and wanna invest themselves with their own talents into their community, and that's awesome, but all those things fell away but eventually they came back, the upstairs of muffled is now used for like art exhibits and stuff. And they have classes, and they still have little musical things not like metal shows and stuff like that but like 

R: But Voodoo has some bands that overlapping

IE1 Yeah they had like rusted root come in even that new band like once by land which is kind of a cool name opposite of Paul Revere but stuff like that you know so we have this revival and like everyone should feel passionate about that. How do I motivate people to feel the way I do?

IE2 Whenever I went through the neighbor came over so his parents have like the most perfect street ever, and all of the neighbors are like best friends first street

IE1 1000 First street and when we did letter making I don't know if you ever did that when you were in grade school they teach you how to address a letter and stuff it's usually when they're teaching how to do cursive and stuff too they like kind of lump all that stuff together. Cursive writing and cursive and my teacher needed the note from my parents because she thought that I was just making my address up to make it easier because none of the kids could remember their address because they're real young you know what I mean and most of them have real arbitrary addresses like 286 whatever street or overlapping but I knew my address at like age three you know because it was like the easiest one in the world

IE2 They're like I remember the first time because I come from like a real you know moved around all the time, I had a real messed up childhood or whatever and the first time I ever like drove up to his parent's house I'm like are you kidding me this is like the white American dream laughs ok, where's the picket fence, where's your dog. and he's like "oh we used to have both of those." laughs I was like of course you did but um muffled

IE1 We have this old picture of my grandma on our old back porch holding me as a baby. And uh I was at my grandma's house with her and I was looking at it and I was like "what is that in the background" cuz and I'm like "mom do you see this" and she's like what and I'm like "That's a white picket fence " laughs I was like overlapping 

IE2 so they have like their own little community so it's fine.

IE 1 The amount of compact vocal business owners that have lived in that area and people do like really influential things in the community just in that neighborhood is ridiculous. Right behind our house when I was growing up, the principal for i think it was the Meadville middle school used to live there, so we had her yeah Mr. Mulaney live next door for like five or six years. They're just selling their house now though. Right it's empty now. So like Mulaney's meat market the owner lived there, machine fabrication which is on 322 just a little past channel lock across the street lives right across from us. Down two are the people that have owned um the whole darn thing for the past x number of years since it changed hands um down around the corner the lady who flies the helicopter for Meadville Medical center lives around the other side you got Mr. Glatch he is the Olympic wheelchair basketball coach for the US or something like that. I know yeah like special Olympics but basketball coach

IR cool

IE1 Yeah right how you know what I mean overlapping Mullins dad works I think he works, it's not north

IR He's the manager of northwest state, it's over by the Marc

IE2 My best friend husband used to live over by that street too overlapping

IE1 Oh yeah I don't think he's the manager he's like an upper tier person at the PNC Branch down here 

IE2 And his husband does something muffled

IE1 Right so like what's also a really interesting thing too I know that a lot of people don't get that because I think because of the despite the college itself being a little more conservative than they're willing to admit, the liberal influence of the people who teach at the college still comes out of there so I think that the town is more open and understanding to be people with different lifestyles despite areas like these being traditionally way more conservative like I mean look Peter zimmer couldn't even beat out muffled he'd had that seat for ten years and all that screaming and yelling a lot if you want to redact that part 

IR No that's valuable 

IE2 muffled Brad Rumschtich muffled what I was saying was that the neighbor came over and he was he was complaining about people muffled because there was another house on the street and now its for sale two bedroom place, and we had looked at it but we were like, that's way too close to home. Which I love his parents but uh there was "they raised a family of five kids in that house" and they weren't sitting inside on the phone muffled I said you know what? We're not planning to get cable we don't need. Just because we're going to have a kid doesn't mean we need cable in our house. He said "oh yeah we'll see how long that lasts"

IE1 No we don't need cable, I'm not getting a landline either. 

IE2 We'll take them out to do we can stream something if we really want to, sit down and watch a movie with them. But there's crafts to be done and toys to be played with and learning to be had and adventures to be taken on. Uh he was just like astounding that somebody our age muffled it was crazy and he 

IE1 He probably thinks its his influence that muffled laughs

IE2 But he was just it was astounding to have and whenever you were talking about how you want your son to like be like there's always something to do, that's sort of what made me think of. And I was just like there will always be something for him to do.

IE1 I'm constantly sending people who live here that link to the Meadville calendar website. And I'm like make this a favorite tab on your phone. If you have an Iphone with google screen that comes up, I was like you can put it right there. So everytime you're like there's nothing to do you can click on that. Because every single day there's something going on here. Somebody's putting on a class or like you can even look they have a section that has flyers. Someone has taken the time to like scan onto that website every single flyer or something that's going on so that you can look at the actual flyers without trying to find them around town posted on some board or something. It's the equivalent to like an old school like 1700 town boards where you find contracts and stuff. You know like our equivalent you know digital info age equivalent.

IR And that's created by like one person, spearheaded by one person with help with a couple others that like want to do this he just started it.

IE1 Who was that

IR Jason Zackle, started the website

IE1 the last name seems really familiar

IR He's been doing a lot of stuff but yeah I know what you mean. So you mentioned um yeah you mentioned your son growing up in a place where there's always something to do and he can have something to do. Uh what else would you want your son or whatever to experience here in Meadville

IE2 muffled and then there was like this guy whose delivering meals for free. I mean it was so cute. Because it was right outside the window so I was able to watch all these kids muffled yeah we got all the donations but he just took his time, and you know there were people performing live music and you know and one and two had a little table set up for whatever it was it was really neat and then there was a table set up with these three little kids making smoothies and it was just really cute because they were like six to eight max. And you know they were taking orders and they made it and you know the moms standing there watching making sure they do it right but they're doing it so like even at that age like you know that may be a part of this you know.

IE1 So basically from the dawn of mankind you know how we've made friends as a race of homo sapiens. Forced comraderie, ok? that 

IE2 Just force friendship on people laughs

IE1 Not force as i'm forcing you to be friends with me but it's like, why are you friends with your siblings. Do you think that if you never spent a minute around them, you'd be friends with that person? you wouldn't know that person. Your friends with your siblings, or I mean maybe enemies with your siblings but because your always with each other. When you're born you know you're around the house you see your parents you know um with other kids, you might not be friends with them, but they're around. at least for that age. You go to preschool, kindergarten you're around these people every day, you go to high school you're around these people you get a little more choice in high school but ultimately you're still gonna be friends with some other people there because you're going to be around them every single day then you may go to college, or you might get a job either way job- college forced comraderie ok. You finally hit the certain age and all of a sudden you have this big realization which I probably had, a year or two ago that I'm like "If I'm not at work or at a bar, I'm never going to make any friends. Ever at this point in my life, because I'm not in a place where I'm forced to be around people, other than my job.

IE2 Well that's why like the muffled thing is so nice because

IE1 Anything that brings people together who are just going there because they want to be there, that's not forced comraderie, you're making friends because you just want to be there, other people want to be there, you can chat have conversations about whatever you want. We need more things like that.

R: Well before we had that music festival, that was another one, I'm really glad we got to go there just because I had never been to the riverside inn before. Like I had never even seen the building before. So I was like really grateful that I was able to go and do that because it's just unique. In other words we ran into people we knew there was other people we didn't necessarily know but we start a conversation, and it's like "oh we're getting through to the same person, you know drinking the same thing. You know whatever, and we were all there for the same reason just to appreciate the music being played

IE1 I bumped into so many people that I hadn't talked to in forever that we just there that I had no idea were gonna be there. muffled Do you remember when we went for that walk and we ran into the huge thing going on at the diamond. We just went for a walk and we were like "What is this? Is there some guy that in his like freaking Yukon up there blasting music." You know what I mean we just walked up there, and the park was filled. We were like "shoot what is going on?" muffled Ran into Gina her boyfriend both their kids Mitch was there.  muffled I'm thirty years old I have to be involved in stuff. And I'm like you do it because you want to be not because you're like scared of like getting old without being involved don't do it out of fear. Everyone should feel this great, about all the stuff. Why wouldn't you wanna feel this great. muffled

R: Oh I wanna get out of here and I'm like coming from someone whose lived here less than two years. I'm like there's all these things. All this stuff is happening it's like go do this. muffled so the parks shut down but it was like everyone was in this facebook group is going to bring either a donation or food. and they were all just going to get together and set up a table