Interviewer: Can you tell me something about Meadville that has happened or has happened to you regularly that reflects what is great about this community? So, just tell me a story about that.

 

R: You want to us to say our name every time we answer.

Interviewer: Just the first time.

R: The first time we answer one question, that's it.

Interviewer: Ya. Just this time.

R: Alberto00:47 and uh. One thing that happens here a lot to me is my daughter ends up being in a community place and at this point in her life she has decided at 10 years old this is what she wants to do for a living. So, the fact that this is even available to her beyond um, little kids theater which there is one also, and she is also apart of. Uh, I don't know that if I was in New York City where I am from, she would been involved in something like this. And she is really happy when she's doing this. That's one thing that I about Meadville 01:39 that I think on a regular basis.

Charice: Charice McKenzie.  A lot of things that happen in Meadville are um meeting people that want to improve their environment--thier community. The amount of people that actually want to better what's going on here. I think it has a big draw to me as to why I am really impressed by it. I'm from Texas, so when I wasn't even meant to come here, it wasn't my decision, it just happened that way. And to see so many people and not just this group, this, its just different people in different groups all over the place trying to make it better, trying to bring people together, trying to in a world that seems to be falling apart, they all seem to be trying to make it better. I like that about Meadville. And it seems to be working.

BJ: Okay, I'm BJ Ankstat and I have been in Meadville a little over a year. Moved here last year in the end of January. So, we lived outside of DC, and we were getting ready to retire and going okay, where are we going to go? And we went here, and we went there, and we went the other place, and there were even some places that we really liked. But, there was something missing. And we would go back there and say, okay, if anybody says hi to us, we will consider this place, again. But we would come to Meadville and everybody would wave at you, whether they knew you or not. You would walk into a store or into a restaurant and people were your friends. And, of course, theater, there are many opportunities for theaters to see it to do it, has very talented people. And we said, well this is obviously where we belong and this is why we moved here.

That's funny because when my Mom visited when I was at Allegheny, she would always say everyone in Meadville waves. I don't know why they always wave. Like isn't it good that they wave, and she's like ya I just don't know why they do. 

It was a little weird actually.

It reminds me of home. 

Well no one, in New York ever looks at you.

No they don't.

 That I know. But in Texas, I mean they, that's the way it is.

That's the way.

That is the way it is. They wave to every body. When I say hello to people, they stop, they because of the way I approach them, because they think there supposed to know me. But, it just feels like home to me because of it.  

Well here, people do know each other. That was another thing that was weird when I came to visit for the first time. We walked into a restaurant and several people knew who I was, even though I had never been here before. Because word got around. This is, 11 years ago, and I guess the hospitals weren't recruiting a lot of doctors then, and they knew. But even weirder than that, I had noticed the waiving thing and I said to my then Wife, isn't this a little strange that everybody waves. And she said your a psychiatrist who was paying to much attention. We walked in the hospital, by the GI lab, where they do colonoscopies, and  the guy in the gurney who is about to get a colonoscopy sets up and waves. And so,

Not weird

Ya right. So, I said, are you sure you want to come to this town.

And the answer was YES!

While ya, we ended up coming here. We were talking about the friendliness of the people in Meadville.

How long have you been here?

11 years.

Interviewer: So Tim, we are just sharing stories, very informal. You can grab some pizza too.

Tim: Nice! My favorite pizza place in town...hahah.. Oh I see.

Interviewer: You could think about it. The question was do you want to talk about something that happens here regularly that effects or that um reflects why its great or what you love about this community.

Ah, we are being positive, great! Alright, I have to switch gears now, just kidding. Um, something that happens here regularly, that reflects why it's great to be in Meadville.

Interviewer: Or a memory you have, I also don't mean to put you on the spot. Also, can we move in just a little bit. Well, think about it and we will come back to you Tim.

Tim: Yes, let's do that.

Interviewer: So everyone just naturally said, what brought them here actually. I'm just wondering why did you stay here? Or why have you stayed here and if you have a story or something to share about that-- that's great too.

I have moved twice in two years. HAHA

So, I didn't know anything about this town-- at all. I never even heard of it. And I asked a recruiter for a specific amount of money and I didn't care what it was. All I cared about was that it was a small town because my then wife wanted to have a kid. And so, I went to look at five places. In one of them, I was told after I went in a bar to ask directions, and the bartender asked my why I was dressed so nicely, and I said well I'm here for an interview at the hospital, and she said oh well meet your patients. And she started calling out people who would wake up on tables where they were passed out. Um, then they told me that it was a very liberal town because they were okay with--then they used a derogatory term for homosexuals. 

Of course, they did.

And they said that they even had a guy apply and they were okay with them holding hands in public. So, that place got ruled out. And then, I went to another place where they said their were no Hispanics even though I had just driven down a road, where every sign was in Spanish. Like, are you not capturing the fact that I am Hispanic. And he is telling me as a plus of the town, that there are no Hispanics, out of the blue. So, that place got ruled out. And then I came here and the whole waving thing happened. Which was a little strange, I mean it was a little strange that the guy who was about to get a colonoscopy was waving at us. But, well it turns out the my wife was a GI physicians assistant at the time, so we were going to the GI lab. So, I wonder what this person thought when we walked in behind them. But I liked, having grown up in Puerto Rico which is a very violent place. And I have been in New York City for seven-eight years and Newark, Jersey for four years. I came here and I didn't feel the need to lock the door immediately, which is what i have always done. I still do that, but I didn't feel like this was a dangerous place to raise a kid. So, after being here for a year, we decided we are staying because we --it felt right.

Well, just to give my story. This is going to take 15 minutes. If anyone wants to this is a good time to take a break. My story is, I cam here to go to College against my will. Actually, I didn't not want to go to Allegheny, I was given a choose of three schools by my parents, one of which I really wanted to go to. And they kept pressing me which one do you want, which one do you want, and I said I don't care, I don't care. Finally, when they said choose one and I said the one I really wanted they said no. So, parents, and then they talked it over to my aunts and uncles and they decided that Allegheny would give me the best education out of the ones that they were considering and so I ended up here. Loved it, because college is a great time, probably wold have loved it anywhere I was. But, I jumped right in, really enjoyed it. And as part of my time in college, um, I made sure that I was part of church life. So, I made sure that I was at a different church every Sunday. Mostly, went between the Presbyterian and the episcopal church, but I traveled all around. Every place except the church I now work. We always came down the hill, instead of going up the hill, um from the college. But when I was in college, I so loved being part of the college fellowship and so hated our Chaplin, that I decided that if I had a chance I would be a college Chaplin. And, uh, I would be the exact opposite of the kind of Chaplin that he was. Um, so my dream for some point in my life was to be the Chaplin at Allegheny. And in 1993, 10 years after I was ordained, I fourteen years after I graduated from Allegheny. That opportunity came up, to be the interim Chaplin, they were looking for an interim Chaplin, someone to do the job while they searched for a permanent Chaplin and they said there is a chance you'll be the permanent Chaplin but, we are going to have a search process, that kind of thing. It was an amazing year in ministry in '93 and '94 um, had a lot of fun being back. I really enjoyed interacting with students,ext. When the time came the college didn't pick me as the permanent Chaplin. So, there was a church in town that said, would you be our interim pastor, and I said I could do this for a year because I didn't want to move my family again, that quickly. And 22.5 years later I am still at that church, ya, and everyone had said, but it's been an amazing thing. I was able to live my dream, which a lot of people can't say they did, and then I did something I never dreamed that I would get to do, which is teach at Allegheny. And, that has been a lot of fun, in fact that class that I taught over a 12 year period in the 22 years that I have been here is the one course that I toke in the religious study department. Because I avoided that, area because I didn't agree with the theology of the other professors at the time. But I did take the religion of the Muslims Islam and that's what I have been teaching, which has been a lot of fun and really interesting. And so, in raising the family here- the three kids um, we were always told, my wife and I, that Meadville is a great place to raise kids. And I always looked at that and still do as more of a judgment on Meadville than it is a blessing, because the reason that the people who say it have said it is because well it's safe. But what they mean mostly is there aren't many minorities and I think that is against Meadville, because. My response to myself at least, not in public, when people say Meadville is a great place to raise a family, ya, if you don't want them to interact with the world the way it is. As in diverse and lots of opportunities and experiences. There is plenty to do in Meadville though, everyone who lives and grows up here says there's nothing to do, and it has been nice to be relatively safe. I often leave my house wide open, and the car I rarely lock. Except it's so easy with the key log now just to hit it. And I haven't had any problems with break ins or anything at the house, except with inebriated college students. And those have been more comical than frightening, one or two were frightening. So, it is a wonderful town, it's small town America, and I really see both sides of the picture with it. I will never forget that in 1995, in the aftermath of Timothy Mcbae and everything that happened in 1993, and then the reverberations that happened in 95, I can/t remember what event that was. But it was connected. Two years later around April 19 there was something, terrible that happened in town- in the country.

There was the Oklahoma bombing.

That was 93.

Okay, there was the Oklahoma bombing and then there was the Olympics.

Maybe, that's what it was.

I had a friend that was an ATF agent and he used to tell me about it. He would bring pictures and things like that.

There was some kind of home grown terrorism that happened in 95. But, when the, maybe that was Oklahoma, and 93 was Wako. Na 91--anyway sorry. Well, when the New York Times wanted to do a feature on the American militia movement, where did they go to find real good militia people- Meadville. They interviewed people at the Isle's which isn't there anymore, its now that sup shop, that pizza sub shop. And it was on the front page of the New York Times, Meadville of all places. At that point folks like Darrel Civic were really operating big gun rights guy and anti-UN. But at the time even though Timothy Mcbae and the Wako stuff was negative, these guys were proud of them. 

I wish I had seen that before I moved here.

You didn't talk to me. I would have told you.But at the same time, everyone knows everybody, its a wonderful little community. The Halloween parade is both the best thing and the funniest thing that happens in this town. Three hours of ambulances and firetrucks and every kind of princesses you can imagine from water fowl to dairy. It's just interesting, it's really interesting.It has been nice to raise kids in a safe environment, where they get to know friends. So, for me it's a mixed thing, but I try to look at the best of it and emphasize that, well aware of the worst of it. And why did I stay, I got stuck. In the late 90's when I had completed my academic work and got my Doctoral degree, I turned to my family and said let's move somewhere. Where? I'll move anywhere in the world you want to go. We can go to New York, Pittsburgh, or Washington D.C. we can go to Cairo or Jerusalem, anywhere you want. And my oldest daughter, who at the time would have been thirteen or fourteen, looked at me and she said no way dad I am not leaving, this is my friends, this is my home. And to me that was like the voice of god saying ya don't uproot your family, it scares kids when you do that. And, so I thought if it was right for my oldest, it's right for my middle and youngest. So I waited until my youngest graduated from high school and then college. And now she is out, and now I can go, but I don't know where. Still waiting...

Alright, well does anyone else have anything they want to say about that. That's fine if you don't, just asking.  So i'll ask, so we all sort of talked about things that happen here regularly, but you can think out of the box for this: what would you miss if it wasn't here anymore. It could be a place, it could be a person, it could be just like a feeling, an event, really anything like that. If it wasn't here it wouldn't be Meadville anymore. 

It's easy to be sitting in this room and say The Academy Theater. It's such an important part for me of my life but Meadville. And, the other theaters that are here don't fill that gap.

I didn't know there were other theaters here. 

Haha, you see.

This is the first time I have been in this theater.

Oh, wow! Welcome!

I have been here about 2.5 years oh, okay.

There are two or three other theaters in town.

It would have to be the same for me because my life kind of centers around theater. 

So, can you say like, so like why? What did that mean for you when you chose to move her, or when you chose to stay here? The fact that the theater was so important.

Well, we know, we were doing theater all the time when we were in D.C. So, we knew we had to have a place that had theaters convenient, where they did a lot of shows. We looked at other places, again, I don't know why but we came inside the academy theater several times. We made several trips over three years, and we said yup this is the one, I don't know why. The one thing I do miss from the D.C. area is, all I see is white faces, in our coldasack, we had people from truly all over the world. They were french, there were some Syrian refugees, from the gold coast, and from Mississippi and people that lived in Maryland all their lives they just--. And we lived in a coldasack so the kids would all get in the middle and play. And you saw red, yellow, black, and white, you know. Not to be flipping about it, but as the song says, its just they were all there playing together and I loved it. And, I miss that here. But, I also don't miss the fact that I heard sirens and ambulances constantly, and it was a little jarring not to hear it.

I think multicultural is amiss in Meadville, if you go look for it, because I don't hang out with just white people. Not being, even, though I am technically white, I am a minority. I was born and raised in Puerto Rico, and I, my wife, and friends include a white guy, a black guy, an Italian guy, a half Chinese and half Taiwanese person, and every color in between.

In again, not to be flipping about that, but are you finding these friends in certain places.

Well, some of them are doctors at the hospital because that is probably the most multicultural place because doctors come from all over for all kinds of different reasons. We had two Philippine psychiatrists here at one point, five years ago. I have had two Nigerian psychiatrists work with me. So, and then through them you start meeting other people, and sometimes through patients actually. I have meet a few Puerto Ricans here actually through patients. Meadville just opened up a Dominican restaurant that is run by a Dominican women. 

Where is this?

Right over there on Park Avenue.

Rose's Legacy.

There is another place that a guy who came into Home Depot the other day. I'm trying to remember he was Italian he was from Italy and he said there is a restaurant opening or something he worked at opening. You know I work at Home Depot, I see all kinds of people.

So, Rose's has genuine Dominican food, the lady is Dominican, her husband is not. Her husband is American and I guess his brother is the guy who owns the Pensylvannia Sub Company. And actually Amoon, which closed.

Yes, unfortunately, I was excited when that opened, middle eastern restaurant.

It was middle eastern, and it was run by middle eastern people.

And, it was very good food.

So, which brings me to one thing I would miss, that would make Meadville not Meadville, and that might make me actually consider moving is if Montana's went away. Because, the one thing that this place is really lacking for me is, better food. I was in New York City, and I am all about food and wine, and I love to cook. But, I can only cook so many times a week, and mediocre food just doesn't cut it for me. Montanas was a huge change for me, and the fact that I can have a good steak whenever I want. Now, the Dominican restaurant made my decade, because that's the food I grew up with. I can cook it, and I can cook it very well, but I don't always have time to do that. 

You call it Dominican, is it different from Puerto Rican?

Yes, there food is very similar in ingredients but there are slight differences. For example they have a dessert on their menu called Mareda, which is a corn pudding in Puerto Rico that's a rice pudding, completely different. And, they drink, even though we have passion food in Puerto Rico, its not a big thing. But Dominicans they have passion fruit juice in their menu, so its huge for them. Even our Flans are different, I like mine better. But, the rice is similar and the 26:40 is similar, and she does oxtail, which is one of my favorite things to eat, and she does it exactly like my grandma would have. It's stew, it's amazing.

Do they get meet from the tail?

Ya they got a little cartilage.

And, that with rice and beans and tostones, which are fried plantains.

You are making me 27:07 , there's pizza over there.

And they don't have a liquor licence so I can bring my wine, which is another absolute must for me. I also 27:19 

Interesting.

So that, if that wasn't there it would change the landscape of the place, if Allegheny wasn't there.

Oh yes!27:34 

I would consider moving. Because of course now, my daughter wants to move to Pittsburgh in a couple of years.

Does she?

Ya, there is some school down there that's liberal arts and theater, and they have to audition for but its a public school and my ex-wife has a boyfriend who lives in Pittsburgh so she would have the opportunity to do that if she really wanted to, and so she's really talking about it.

It's the one with the unicorn as a mascot. I can't remember what it's called. But, I had some friends who went there. Is it28:01 

The guy who opened kinky boots went to that school.

Okay! 

It wasn't Sydney Lauber, she wrote it. I don't know who...

It's some huge black dude.

Billy Porter... Billy Porter

Oh, I have heard of him.

I missed it. I went to see it and the guy who was in it was the lead, and he was amazing.

Wayne Brady.

He was so good.

He came to Allegheny at one point. Just a few years ago, ten years ago.

So, a couple of you have eluded to this, and maybe I just want to get it out a little bit more but, what would make it easier to stay here.

If the transportation was better. That's my big thing.

Better public transportation.

Better public transportation because if Delilah doesn't get- being able to come to plays or going to Saturday night at the market house or things that are going to show her what community is all about and she is stuck at home because I don't have a car. You know and when I was in Pittsburgh and when I was in Dallas those buses are like nobodies business. Those things are running all night long. You know there is no stopping your social development and teaching your kids it's not about the people you are around--just the people your around, but about learning and development, and having the ability for your daughter to come to the plays. That's an amazing development for her, to open her eyes to see what she wants to do in life. Expand her mind. 

We apparently have one Uber driver. Uber would be very useful.

Is there only one?

Ya.

I looked into being an Uber driver they said I needed a four door Sudan that was less than 5 years old, and I have a 12 year old car that's a convertible. I could offer them to drop the top but anyway...

There is one uber driver and one taxi.

Yes!

And the Cata bus doesn't always run at the right times. Things like that, but its nice that they have it at least.

If you are an Allegheny student, you have good loop service- the drunk bus they call it.

The one thing that I would have to change for me, because Pennsylvania as a state was a very difficult state to bring wine into, and that changed this summer.

To bring it into..

Ya, it was actually illegal.

You mean from Puerto Rico.

No, I mean from anywhere in the country.

It was illegal to bring alcohol across the state lines.

No one stops you at the border. 

No, but if you did, actually for some reason some people have gone to jail for it.

Really??

Because every state has to control alcohol laws and Pennsylvania has a monopoly on all the state stores. And, the law says that you have to buy all alcohol from the state of Pennsylvania. Which meant that shipping it to the state, was prohibited from all the wineries. But, they completely changed the law this past summer, and now you can ship it from wherever. So, that was probably was the one thing on my mind, I can't keep doing this. But, outside of that I think obviously more restaurants would be, I think for me. And a high end, grocery store because I love to cook and sometimes getting the ingredient I want, unless I play very far ahead and get it online is hard to do. I have to go to Wegmans which is an hour from me almost. 

For a good lamb or a good..

Or like even a really good piece of fish. I mean I know that Velazques brings in every Thursday, every third Thursday of the month, but its not what I'm looking for.

It would be nice to have some more shops downtown. I guess you would have to have people that would go shopping and make it worthwhile to open a shop.

And that's the bigger picture for me, even though it wouldn't effect me directly, in terms of employment, I think  it would be nice to have a couple of big factories like this town used to have. Tallon, American Viscos, which was an American textile company, even though it polluted the area and probably has contributed to the cancer. A lot of people that worked there, I buried a number of them, and they all had cancer. But some big companies like Dad's and Channelock now, and the little tool shops help but there's not enough industry here to bring in enough people to have things like that.

And I have talked to students who would like to stay here but don't think that there will be any jobs there for them so...

Revitalizing downtown, downtown is pretty depressing actually. 

It is.

This is such a nice little town, but there's nothing in the storefronts that's relevant to most people. 

And you are going to do something about that right, that's why we are talking to you.

Can you BJ since you brought it up, can you expand on why does that matter to you? Why do you want shops, and maybe what shops would you be looking for?

Um..

They used to have a corset factory...maybe that's what your after!

That's what I need a corset.

Is there a Victoria secrets?

How nice of you to notice? That's what I needed.

Victoria Secrets was pretty much started at Sparella or something. There's a historical plaque right down the street.

Okay, I didn't know that either.

Read the signs.

Other places that I have been, something that I liked about it was that the downtown draws people because there are restaurants, shops and things in the window that you can look at, and there's a vibrancy to that. I wish I had a better answer than that but...

Can you maybe just dig a little bit more into the word vibrancy? Like what, what does that mean to you? And this can be for anyone too. I'm just directing it at BJ.

Ya, how do you know it when you see it?

Well, you know it when you see it. If you walk downtown on a Friday and there is 100 people walking on the street it's a vibrant town. If you walk downtown on a Friday and there are 2 people, and one of them is drunk...

Well, the reason I am asking this is because often the Diamond is humming and it's not always an appealing thing.

Right.

So, I wasn't sure.

But you go into a small town, and you walk downtown in the middle of the street on a Friday afternoon and you can't walk more than single file because there's people walking up and down looking at stores, going in and out of restaurants. That doesn't exist here.

And the outdoor cafe, kind of things, that..

Right, there's no people sitting outside having coffee.

Right.

Someone trying to sell you hot dogs.

None of those things would fly because there's not enough people in the area.

So, its the people that make the place vibrant?

Yes.

But, I went to Minneapolis on a Friday afternoon six years ago. On a Friday afternoon, I went to go to a sushi place, and in down town Minneapolis, which is gorgeous by the way. I must have counted 30 people and it was the weirdest feeling. I immediately thought there was no chance in Hell I would come work here, because even though New York is the opposite and its got its flaws for the opposite reasons because you can't go anywhere because there is a wall of people everywhere you go. That other side of it well the there is this gorgeous city with nobody in it. It doesn't feel right to me.

One of the other places that we considered, that we said, if anybody says hello to us we will reconsider this and we could not in three trips get anyone to say hello to us was Lewisburgh.

Where's Lewisburgh?

In Pennsylvania, it's where oh crumby buttons. What's the name of that college? 

Lewisburgh? HAHA

No, no. I will think of it in a minute, anyways its got a big college that is right downtown but ya, you go walking around day or night the downtown is just filled and the movies are hoping and they've got outdoor cafes and all different types of stuff going on. There's hope, there's happiness. Everybody's glad to be out and around people. 

Downtown Beaver is just like that too.

Beaver?

They have a lot of little restaurants and cafes and people sit outside.

Interesting.

But can you make something like that...

Bucknell!

Bucknell, thank you! By providing some different kinds of stores and restaurants in downtown, will that make people come in and start enjoying it? Or do you have to have those people first? Or will college students come in and do any of that?

It depends on how you gear it...

If there from larger cities because they are already used to that kind of behaviors because when I lived in Denton it was always hoping and buzzing because they were from the areas, like North Texas. So, you go to north Texas University, you are already used to the hustle and bustle. So you, know the places are there, the people are there. And you get the people form Allegheny college that come in from other places if there already used to that hustle and bustle they are going to be looking for it.

I have thought about opening a coffee shop for that reason. Geared at students. 

Like ceramic shops, they would like that.

Ya!

Well there isn't a place like that here, and when they do open coffee shops then they gear it at not that crowd.

Ya, I was surprised because we practically live at the college. And there doesn't seem to be anything geared towards the college, and well you would know so you went there.

Well the college is vibrant. There is a vibrancy there but it is pretty contained to the campus. And there are people like Lee and Autumn, or people who come down the Hill and will work down here. But, its pretty self contained and the thing that they have on campus that they invite the community to are really hard to get to in a lot of ways, parking, and things are difficult for people. But, there still is a lot going on there all the time, which feels very different from down here. And uh, as I say there is a lot going on here. One of the things we were talking about is how empty things are, as opposed to how packed in other places. It's true the crime is different here than other places. This was 75 when we were doing our college tour and we came to Allegheny, my parents asked the tour guide who was a local, they said to her, so anything interesting happen in Meadville and she though, she said well last year there was a murder. And, my dad said A MURDER. He said we are from outside of Pittsburgh and there is like a murder a week or a shooting a week or something. And she said, ya. And really, its been like one a year. Lately, with the Opiod Epedimic, there is more.

It's actually been one to three, I think in the last like six years.

I remember when I was a junior or senior at Allegheny. There was a murder in town and the murderer who was bleeding came up through campus near my dorm and you could see the trail of blood that he as leaving as he went. You know things of that nature. But, you know when that's the only thing, its like thank god that it's that low. But still...

BJ by the way you should know that Allegheny has a yearly multicultural food festival, that's impossible to get tickets to.

It's impossible to get tickets to- I tried. It's impossible unless you are one of the people serving food.

So, next time they do this I should talk to you about how to..

If, if, my ex-wife drags me into it again cause she is about as multicultural in her cooking as my42:37 But,

You don't even have to work to Roberto just go to Tiffany.

Yes, go to Tiff, because she actually got us involved three times. All we did was, we would make a dish, and we would have a little, a bunch of Puerto Rican things to hand out and people would come and taste the food, becasue there is two there is a dinner, which is a very hard ticked to get. But, because I was involved with the other one which is jut like a walk around

That would be fun you would just like taste little things.

in the campus center.

People would have little booths with stuff from their country.

I would love that.

Like the chilly cook off that they just had at the ICC.

Ya, but ya, they get a lot of variety. And, I got a hell of a stomachache. That should commend it, it's delicious though.It's very interesting because most people have some kind of information about their country.

And, by the time I read about it in the newspaper it will be too late.

Most likely.

Okay got it.

It will be after the fact.

So, I have got one more question, and again I am okay with silence so if you need to think about it that's fine. If you had a magic wand and you could grant one thing for Meadville, one wish you have, that you could make happen for Meadville, um what would it be?

I actually thought about this recently because I'm a 44:22  and I get to think about these things a lot. I would restore this building and make it perfect. Now that is not great, but I would make it really nice for my daughters sake. 

Meaning the academy?

Right.

Young Child Female: For a wish for every single person in Meadville. That would be my wish for every single person in Meadville to have a wish.

That's pretty impeccable. 46:01 (REALLY GOOD QUOTE)

That's very benevolent.

Or a million wishes.

But despite the Miss.USA answer. If you could change something about Meadville with one wish, what would it be?

More attractions, I love attractions.

What do you mean by that?

Like a lot of places, they have like Ripley's museums and that kind of stuff. I would like if there was a haunted house or two. Honestly, we love those, cause he loves that I scare myself out of my pants and I love watching other people get scared out of their pants.

Not too dramatic is she.

Anyone else?

Do you walk through the balcony at night?

Ya, I have done it before.

This might be a haunted house.

Kind of a haunted house.

There's Ernie, but he is not very scary, he's friendly.

If I could give one wish, it would be, and this is so vague, hope. It seems like well people are very, very friendly, they don't have a lot of hope. The opiod problem, the other problems would probably diminish or go away if people had hope that something, that they were going to have a  job, a home, they can stay here, and I am still here because I don't mind helping. I see so much potential here, I see so much potential in this town. 

I would have a magic one, something also intangible. Good, good relation, an atmosphere where diversity is celebrated and where we have shows here that, if we need a diverse cast at all we are thinking okay how far can we color someone's face or hair so that it's believable that they are that race or ethnicity. We just don't have a diverse pool of people to draw from. The race and the ethnicity are segregated a lot in this community and its not just that we don't mingle  I think there is some animosity and tipothy, still some small mindedness in this town. I wish there were even among the churches, where there shouldn't be, we just don't see a lot of that interaction and I wish we did.

I think expanding on that, that I would wish some of our public opinions or when we did the power thing they were more concerned with who was in the Diamond. Those lost kids, that they would open up and expand and see that we need to be more prevalent to be there for them, to embrace them. I think that would be a big thing for more people to embrace people instead of saying well you need to do this, and you need to do that. Just I wish that magic wand would open up and people would embrace others more, to you know make people feel, that they are needed and wanted and loved and not just shoved under a carpet somewhere. I think that's important.

Should give hope.

That too.

Well unless anyone has something that they felt like the really needed to say and didn't get a chance to you are welcome to head out.

I have no idea if this helped you at all but thank you for letting us chit-chat and talk, learn about each other.

I came for the food, what are you talking about? haha

So, I do need you all too...