CONNECTION NUMBER 014  

Transcriber: Erik Orta

3/11/18

Interviewer: Grace

Interviewee: ?

Interviewer: Hi I’m grace and I’m doing an interview for my Meadville, which is, they’re trying to determine what the community wants and what can make it better. This interview is going to be recorded.

Interviewer: First question. What do you love about the city of Meadville? 

R: I love all the community events like second Saturday where you can go and have fun with your friends or family, and I like all the locally owned shops such as creative crusts and tattered corners, and I like that there is not a lot of crime here so you don’t really have to worry about much, and I like all of the seasons. 

Interviewer: What’s your favorite memory of living in Meadville?

R: Um my favorite memory is in the summer I would go to the farmer’s market with my parents and then we'd go to creative crusts and get bread and we would have tons of fun. 

Interviewer: Why do you sta... Why do you stay in Meadville and what brought you here?

R: My dad got a job here and so we moved here and I stayed because of my parents.

Interviewer: What would make staying here easier?

R: Having more places to hang out with my friends and more places to shop at.

Interviewer: What things capture the spirit of our town?

R: The big zipper where all the people contributed pieces to it and all the road signs out by giant eagle.

Interviewer: What would you miss if Meadville wasn't here?

R: Um, creative crusts because I go there practically every weekend and its, you can just sit there and talk or you can like eat its its really nice.

Interviewer: What about Meadville is important to continue in the future?

R: Um, its important to continue community events and uh having low crime rate.

Interviewer: What would you change to make Meadville even better, or if you could have one wish for Meadville what would it be?

R: To have more shopping options like build a better mall or expand the downtown mall to have more places that teenagers would like to shop at like H&M or like forever 21 or Hollister, places like that. Um or like an arcade where teenagers could go to have fun or hangout with their friends.

Interviewer: Ok and thank you!