So, it is recording now.

So to start, just like a general question: What do you love about Meadville?

R: Um, I love the people in Meadville.

What about the people?

R: My friends are okay, I guess haha.

What kind of things do you do with them?

R: We walk around and play around I guess. Ya. I don’t know we don’t really do anything we just walk around town.

Okay.

Ya.

Um, what would be like your favorite memory of Meadville?

R: Um, oh shoot this is a good one, my favorite memory would be like I don’t know going around town with my friends and the um like Meadville has those littler carnival things going on in the summer. I don’t know what they are called.

There are concerts in The Diamond or the second saturdays. 

Are there lots of artists?

Um, I think so.

R: I think that is Second Saturday.

Ya, I thinks so. We, uh, go around and hang out down there and I guess those would be fun and a good memory.

Why do you like those?

R: Um, because it is just time spent with my friends and people around Meadville seeing what they do.

What kind of things have you seen throughout these?

R: We have seen two ladies, um, wool I think it is, big things of wool and they spin it with their fingers and it goes through a big thing and they pedal it with their foot.

R: So, ya that’s definitely second saturday.

That’s cool.

Um,  what about living here matters to you?

R: The environment.

Like how so?

R: People taking care of it and it growing.

Um, this question doesn’t make sense to me. 

That’s okay you don’t have to use everyone.

Like why do you stay and what brought you to Meadville?

Why do you stay slash what brought you to Meadville?

Oh!

It’s a typo for sure.

Okay.

Why do you stay in Meadville?

R: Um, because I have a lot of family and friends in Meadville.

Were you born or do you live here?

R: I was born here.

What, how much family do you have here?

Oh, man, I have like basically all my family that lives here, like all of my aunts, uncles, and R: cousins they all live in Meadville.

Is that, are you glad that they do?

R: Sometimes I am and sometimes I am not, because like my dad went to the high school and my family has kind of brought a bad name to our last name.

So, teachers know your last name, yup, right off the get.

There are like oh you’re a holler that’s going to be a problem.

Oh no!

Ya, because my Dad was a bad child along with his brothers so.

What would...you kind of touched on it with your family but what would make staying here easier?

Um, my friends and family. It’s just ya.

Ya.

So there is definitely a recurring thought, that you definitely want to stay in Meadville becuse of your friends.

Ya. Mainly my friends.

You can ask questions.

What’s your favorite restaurant?

Um, I think it would have to be like, that’s kind of a hard question, there is a lot of restaurants…

And, do you like prefer…

I was going to say this is kind of turning into a unique interview.

I was going to ask local or like chain?

I like local definitely.

Are there a couple you like?

R: I like pizza villa because I worked there. Vocelli's. PA sub shop, that is I like their pizza it’s very good.

So, basically you like pizza.

Ya.

Pizzas good.

Cool.

So what things about Meadville capture the spirit of it?

R: Um,  I guess like, um, like these things. Like what we are doing here, type. I think just like in the summertime how you see like groups of kids interacting with each other and like hanging out and stuff. Kids outside of their house, not on their phones. 

So, you like people being out and together.

Ya.

So, what kind of things do you like to do in the summer here?

R: Um, walk around the diamond with my friends and we hang out at the parks and play basketball and play football.

Are there more activities besides Grow Meadville where you are meeting more people?

R: Um, not really. I mean playing football and stuff like that we invite everybody so that’s kind of meeting new people.

Is it two hand touch or tackle?

It’s tackle.

Count me out. I’m fast but I don’t want to be tackled.

Um, what in Meadville would you miss if it wasn’t here? Or what if it were gone?

Ya, I understand the question.

I think I would miss The Diamond. I would miss The Diamond a lot.

What about it?

R: That’s where me and my friends all meet up everyday and that’s just kind of like in the middle of all of our houses and we just kind of walk around.

Sorry, what else would you miss?

Elms street park, ya. It is on Elms St. ya I figured that.

Haha.

R: Because that’s where you see a lot of kids playing and me and my friend joanna and my god daughter, we take my goddaughter there. And, she interacts with all the kids and stuff.

Great.

Um, what about Meadville is important to continue into the future.

Um…

Like what things could be added, organization or anything like that..

There could be more like hangout spots I guess.

Like, what type?

R: Just places you can go and do whatever you want and like a building where there is different areas in the building and you can do something.

What kind of things would you want to do there?

Like, an art studio.

What you are describing sounds like a place that they have up in Erie. I forget what you call it… but after school you can go there and continue to other stuff and just hang out it’s safe. It’s a safe place.

I have seen it in a movie.

A safe place.

I’ll tell you about a place I used to volunteer, and you tell me if this is what you were thinking of. Movement City, where I worked. There is this place after school and teenagers could go there and they had a recording studio, dance studio, and an art studio and all this stuff.

Ya.

They also had guitars everywhere and they had pingpong and you could just hangout.

Was the movie something to do with…

I have seen that movie...haha

Hahah.. They wanted to save like an afterschool program thing…

It’s the same thing your talking about.

Is it called Safe Haven.

No!

She put on a talent show, a dance talent show it was great...pretty great.

Ya. Well, this place I used to work the students love it and some of the students even got paid to organize workshops and run different program and so..

We should like so do that..

I would love to see that…

And they also had like homework help.

R: Like there was a skate park inside there and an area where you could spray paint on the walls. 

So, you are not doing it in the public or whatever.

R: And, it was like in the back of an alley, in like a little abandoned area, garage thing.

We have allies!

And we have abandoned garage places.

We can make this happen everybody!

I need to see this movie.

It’s on Netflix, just search abandoned house place.

I bet there is going to be a lot more.

Not, Safe Haven.

I think it was like in Britain or something.

I think it was somewhere in the United States.

Uh?

Like Chicago area.

But, um, if you want to ever have children what do you want your children or grandchildren to experience when they are growing up here?

Things like these.

Aw.

First off, do you plan on staying here?

No, I don’t plan on staying here.

Why not?

R: Because um parents and stuff. I don’t know my cousin and my best friend that lives in Florida we kind of made a deal that once she graduates and I graduate. I’m going to pack everything up and move down to Florida. 

Where are the cyclones there. Ya, there was a cyclone there yesterday.

What’s a cyclone?

It’s like a water tornado. 

I thought you meant something else.

R: You could totally do that, I mean I moved away too. You could totally do that, it’s important. But say you did have kids here what would you want them to experience if they grew up here.

Things like these so that they can like interact more with people and ya.

When you say these do you mean our Grow Meadville program?

Ya.

So, and you said you like that people get to interact. Are there other things you would want them to experience?

That thing that we just talked about.

Oh, like the hangout spot.

Ya, I am determined to do that. 

We could, you should talk to Lee, he wants to do stuff like that.

Are there any other things you would want them to experience?

No not really, I don’t really know.

What would you like or wish you could change about Meadville for the better?

Change it?

Ya.

R: Like change all of the bad people and make them good.

What do you mean bad people?

Like change all the bad things that happen in Meadville.

I think you might ask like...

She’s got a good answer...

Ya, well finish yours first…

Well, something that’s good too but something more realistic…

R: Just to give you guys an incite into what people want is totally cool. I want to here like why, what kind of bad things you are talking about like I can imagine what you mean, but I want to know what you are thinking of. 

R: Like there was a shooting by my house. Like a while ago and it would be cool if we could like prevent that from happening.

Totally! That’s like scary.

And prevent all the meth lab busts that would be great too. 

Ya, one happened near my house and that was a little scary.

Ya, so before you go away, are there other things you want to change about Meadville? I mean what you said is an awesome answer. 

R: Um, create more things for young people to do um, and go places and stuff.

Ya.

Cool!

So, really quick Tori can you just say your whole name.

Torrence Holler.

Awesome, thank you!