201705529_190351.mp4

Interviewer: Unknown

Interviewed: Jessica

Location: Unknown

What do you love about the city of Meadville?

R: I'd say what I love most about the city of Meadville is that it has all of the attractions and items of a much larger town, but it has a very small-town, family-friendly oriented community. So, it’s kind of what we call the best of both worlds, I think.

What matters to you most about living here?

R: I am a teacher, so what matters most to me would be not only having a great education system for my children, but also an education system that I am proud to work in. And I  also think, raising people to be good, responsible citizens that are community-minded is probably the most powerful thing that we can do. That is what matters most to me about that.

What is your favorite memory of living in Meadville?

R: My favorite memory would probably have to be the Crawford County Fair. That is something that I look forward to the most each year from the time I was 8 years old. Even now as an adult I make sure I at least attend once, if I'm lucky I go twice, a year to the fair. So I would say my strongest memory is the Crawford County Fair.

Why do you stay, and what brought you to Meadville?

R: I stay in Meadville because my employment, and also my husband's employment--he has a small tool and dye shop, so that's very important. We also have two children, so having a great family atmosphere and a family-friendly town was important to us as we raised our family. Also keeping us here in Meadville is our families. Our families grew up here in this area and we're happy to be around them, and stay in a great community.

What would make staying here easier?

R: I would say, to make things easier of course is seeing a boost in the economy so we can keep the jobs we have. As I said my husband is in manufacturing, so seeing a good, solid base in the economy would be something that would make us stay here. Like, if we should ever think about moving it would probably be after our kids are grown. Of course to have an environment where my husband's job could prosper, as well as my own. 

What things capture the spirit of our town?

R: I would say, knowing the president of the Chamber, I think she's doing an amazing job providing events and opportunities for both small and larger businesses within the community. Also making Meadville very community centered I think she does a great job of that. So I would say that spirit captures the spirit of Meadville. Having a strong foundation of both business, small and large, and also having people who are very community minded make this a great city. 

What would you miss in Meadville if it wasn't here? 

R: I think something that I of course would miss a lot would be the Crawford County Fair, if it wasn't here. I also think that the manufacturing, just knowing that the area was based off of manufacturing to begin with. I've seen a drastic decline in that, and of course that affects all of the area when we don't have jobs and opportunities for people. So I think I would miss if we didn't have those, both small and large, manufacturing jobs. I think that would be what I would miss, that Meadville would miss, the most I think.

What about Meadville is important to continue into the future?

R: A strong education system obviously. The economy of course. Having those jobs available and people that can fill them that have a grasp of what they're doing and also a good work ethic. So between a strong education system and also jobs that people can have that people can make a good honest living off of will keep people here, and keep the town thriving. 

What do you want your children and grandchildren to experience here when they grow up?

R: I want them to experience everything like I said in the beginning. What draws us here and keeps us here is all the items of a large town but in a much smaller community oriented. I think that's what I want them to see as well. I want them to be able to have all the great memories that my husband and I share.

What would you change to make Meadville even better? Or, if you could have one wish for Meadville what would it be?

R: I already think we're doing some of it as far as making the town more beautiful and up to date. I think we've been doing a good job right now. I would like to see that continue. I know its hard having so many historical buildings downtown and around town, but unfortunately without the upkeep of those, and of course they're going to cost a lot to upkeep as well. What I would change to make it even better would either to make the decision to go all in and say we're keeping all of these buildings and keeping the historical and we have the money to do that. Or it would be to continue the growth of helping by taking those buildings down and putting some new in. I would probably go with newer buildings versus all the effort and time and money that it would take to restore a lot of these historical places. So that would be what I would change, I would continue to keep that growth going. Like I said, jobs make a community. People needing jobs and to make a great living will keep their families here for years to come. 