Ewan Malenfant

Connection Number 017

March 25, 2018

Note: The quality of this recording is very poor, several gaps in the transcription occur when voices cannot be understood or heard.

 

Interviewer: I'm interviewing for My Meadville, it's uh... it's uh program that we're trying to find out what the people of Meadville want, um, based indiscernible uh and it's like indiscernible.

Interviewer: Um, so what brought you to Meadville or were you always living here?

R: Oh what brought me to Meadville was that my parents wanted to move here because my grandma lives here. 

Interviewer: Um, what do you love about living in Meadville?

R: Um... I really like the changes of the seasons the seasons are pretty, it's cool. laughs.

Interviewer: Um... What is the thing indiscernible?

R: Um, probably my friends houses.

Interviewer: If you could add like one public place to Meadville what would it be?

R: Oh you meant adding!

Interviewer: Yeah. 

R: I thought you meant like adding on to the answer, okay. If i could add anything that, to Meadville I'd probably add like, maybe an arcade or something. Like somewhere that people could hang out at. 

Interviewer asks a question, none comes through.

R: Probably not. Not through high school.

Interviewer: Um, if you could take one thing out of Meadville, what would it be?

R: Probably all the drugs in Meadville, laughs.

Interviewer: Okay um what be the thing that captures the spirit of Meadville?

R: Can you, expand on that? laughs

Interviewer: Uh, I don't know um, If you were gonna take away Meadville, and you could only save one place, what would it be?

R: Probably diamond park.

The next minute and a half of the interview records what seems to be a critique of the interviewer's questioning technique by a group of students, most of it is lost due to the quality of the recording. 

Interviewer: Why would you hold on to diamond park?

R: Um, because when I came to Meadville that was one of the first places that I saw and, I really like, and whenever my mom, she's, my mom drives me to school and whenever we would come in early, like really early, she would drive around diamond park. And so that, I don't know that's just kinda, it's just like a memory to me. So that's what I would show them.

Interviewer: Um, is there anything that is uh bad about diamond park?

R: Ugh diamond park, um...Probably um, there's some old buildings that haven't been restored so, that probably would be something that could ruin the experience if they saw that. 

Interviewer: Um, what's your favorite place to eat around here?

R: Vocelli's. laugh

Interviewer: Um, what kinda food would you want, wait no loud laughing. Why like, Vocelli's?

R: I like their pizza a lot and I usually order it when I'm with friends. 

Interviewer: Um, if you could bring a restaurant to Meadville, like a type of food in particular, what would you want?

R: Uh Mongolian Barbecue, it's really good. laughs

Interviewer: Really?

R: Yeah.  indiscernible laughs.

Again the interview is interrupted by a discussion between what sounds like a teacher and students. Many voices are heard, all of them very difficult or impossible to understand. This discussion concludes the recording. 