KL008

Kathy Lee

Ava Terry

What is it that you love about Meadville? 

R: I like the fact that it seems like a small town, even thought its on the big side. People are very friendly. 

Can you tell me more about people being friendly? How do you see that? 

R: Well, people open doors for you and people stop and let you cross the street. 

That is nice isn't it? 

Do you have a favorite memory or time here in Meadville? 

R: Most of my favorite times are up here at CHAPS.

So that means a lot to you. 

Yeah.

What kinds of things do you do here that make it good? 

R: I love their holiday parties.

They have a party for every holiday? 

R: Christmas mostly.

Mmmhmm, and that's fun? 

Mmmhmm - 

Are you here every day? 

Yeah, except for Wednesdays

And do you live here in the city of Meadville?

R: Yeah, up on Randolph Street

Oh Okay. 

So, what brought you to Meadville? you said you've been here for about three years, what was the thing that brought you? 

R: Well let's just say that I left Conneautville not of my own choice

Oh - well you don't have to get into that if you don't want. 

What are some of the things that capture the spirit of Meadville? Like when you think of Meadville, what comes to mind? 

R: I like the community things that go on - there is usually a lot of stuff down there at the diamond park that go on.  Like they have the mental health fair go on there and then they have that, I think it was called the Second Saturday or something. 

Anything else that captures the spirit 

I think that pretty much covers it. 

What would you miss here in Meadville if it wasn't here anymore? 

R: CATA bus. I have my own issues with them.

But if they weren't here...

Yeah, that would be a bigger problem. 

What if something in this town - it wouldn't really seem like Meadville anymore? 

Hmm, probably Diamond park, because its kind of like the center of the community it seems. 

What do you think is important about Meadville to continue into the future? 

R: As long as they keep the sense of community.

And how do you see the sense of community in Meadville? 

Well, keep up with like the community fairs and festivals.

Do you have a favorite memory of Meadville? 

R: I think getting involved with the community health fair - like at the Diamond or at the Mall

What do you do for those? 

Just volunteer for one of the tables. 

Just give out information or say hi to people? 

Yeah, cuz CHAPS usually has a table at these things.

What would you change to make Meadville even better? 

R: It seems pretty good, but like my issue with CATA bus is that in the winter time, their bus stops usually kept clear so its hard to catch the bus and they could use an extra bench or two here and there.

You mean at the bus stop for you to sit? 

Yeah, like at the one spot down across from Diamond park, they put a bench there, but that's kind of an odd spot to catch the bus - just across from Stairways. 

So you would the busstops to be clear of snow and you would like there to be more benches on the bus route? 

It would be nice to have more of those - they would like people to ride the bus more, but they make it difficult to get to the bus

Because when you get to the bus stop you have to wait.

Sometimes - sometimes they're early, sometimes they're late, and you never quite know for sure. And I know they can't put benches at all of the stops, but some of them they could squeeze in one or here and there. 

What else would you change to make Meadville even better. 

R: I think everything's pretty good the way it is. 

So you're pretty happy with everything so far? They fix the bus problem - and you're golden

Yeah,

You know like last year, I had a doctor's appointment and I couldn't catch the bus on the way home because I couldn't get to the bus stop - there was about a 3 foot pile of snow in front of it.  Which is just as bad as some other streets, when they get done plowing it's all piled up on the curb or sidewalk. 

And when you have to take the bus, that makes it hard to get around...

Yeah. 

If you had one wish for Meadville, what would it be? 

R: I can't think of anything right off hand...I guess the only thing I would wish for is just more job opportunities sometimes - you know like everytime you see things in the paper, you need some kind of technical degree or something. 

So what kind of job opportunities would you like to see? Maybe a little bit more specific.

Maybe like clerical work or something accessible. 

anything else you would like to tell me about Meadville? 

R: Well, like I said I've been here about 3 years, and I've really come to like it. 

Well that's so nice. 

Yeah, I used to say Meadville's a nice place to visit but I would never want to live here, and I think God was listening...

(laughing)  You should have knocked on wood huh...

yeah (laughing). 

Thank you very much. 